=== 01_RFP_Main.pdf ===
RFP# 693JK426R600002
Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
U.S. Department of Transportation Office of
the Secretary of Transportation 1200 New
Jersey Ave, SE
Washington DC 20590
February 4, 2026
Attn: Potential Offerors
Subject: Request for Proposal - RFP# 693JK426R600002
The U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Aviation Analysis (OAA) is seeking a Contractor to
provide Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution via a web-based application tool in accordance with
the attached Statement of Work.
This is a COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION for commercial items prepared in accordance with
the format in FAR Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice.
This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposal is being requested and a written
solicitation will not be issued. Interested parties are responsible for monitoring this site to ensure they
have the most current information in reference to this acquisition.
This requirement will be awarded as a commercial item under the procedures outlined in FAR Part 12.
The North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code for this procurement is 541511,
"Custom Computer Programming Services," with a small business size standard of $34.0 Million.
The DOT anticipates the award of a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) contract from this RFP. The resultant award
shall consist of five years: one (1) base period and four (4) one year option periods.
This acquisition is a Full and Open Competition. The basis for award is "Best Value." The NAICS Code
541511- Custom Computer Programming Services.
DOT invites your company to submit a proposal in accordance with your established rates for the above
support Services.
Please submit questions by Tuesday, February 10, 2026, at noon EST. Proposal submissions are due no
later than Thursday, March 27, 2026, at 10 AM EST via email to Melinda.Riddick@dot.gov with a cc copy
to Robin.Golden@dot.gov. Please submit questions and proposals to the aforementioned email addresses.
NOTE: ***Offeror must provide a demonstration of the solution made available to DOT personnel prior to
submitting a proposal. Offerors must schedule a demonstration by 12pm EST on or before March 2, 2026,
Offerors must send an email to the above email addresses with available times between 10am and 2:30pm
EST M-F for an online presentation via M.S. Teams or Zoom***
Please reference: "RFP: 693JK426R600002 (Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application) in the
subject line when responding to this solicitation.
Thank you in advance for your interest in the Department of Transportation and its Programs.
Sincerely,
Melinda Riddick
Contracting Officer
Office of the Senior Procurement Executive
1 of 62
1. CONTRACT PRICING
(Table with negotiated per year prices will be inserted upon award)
The Period of Performance (POP) for this contract service shall be 12-months from award date, for the
Base Year, followed by four (4) one-year Option Years. The effective or start date and termination date
for this contract's Period of Performance shall be specified in the contract award.
Base Year:
Description of Services
Qty
Unit
Number
Extended Price
Price
of
Hours
1
Task 1 - Software and Application
2
Task 2- Provider Travel-Training-
only if needed
BASE
Base Total Cost
YEAR
Description of Services
Qty
Unit
Number
Extended Price
Price
of
Hours
1
Task 1 - Software and Application
2
Task 2- Provider Travel-Training-
only if needed
Option
Option Year 1 Total Cost
Year 1
Description of Services
Qty
Unit
Number
Extended Price
Price
of
Hours
1
Task 1 - Software and Application
2
Task 2- Provider Travel-Training-
only if needed
Option
Option Year 2 Total Cost
Year 2
2 of 62
Description of Services
Qty
Unit
Number
Extended Price
Price
of
Hours
1
Task 1 - Software and Application
2
Task 2- Provider Travel-Training-
only if needed
Option
Option Year 3 Total Cost
Year 3
Description of Services
Qty
Unit
Number
Extended Price
Price
of
Hours
1
Task 1 - Software and Application
2
Task 2- Provider Travel-Training-
only if needed
Option
Option Year 4 Total Cost
Year 4
TOTAL FIRM FIXED PRICE
$
Period of Performance
Contract Total
Base Year
$0.00
Option Year One (1)
$0.00
Option Year Two (2)
$0.00
Option Year Three (3)
$0.00
Option Year Four (4)
$0.00
Grand Total
$0.00
Note: Note: Offerors shall not include the overtime (OT) price in the total price. The overtime Price and
Hours are subject to COR approval.
2. STATEMENT OF WORK
2.1
INTRODUCTION
The U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Aviation Analysis (OAA) has a statutory responsibility
to analyze, using global airline schedule, air fare, and market demand data, the economic impact of
current and proposed domestic and international aviation policies, the review of economic transactions
among airlines, and to support DOT route selection proceedings. In order to properly analyze these
3 of 62
impacts, OAA must have access to global (international) aviation market demand data for individual city-
pairs, as well as continuously updated advanced schedule data. The demand data must include price and
traffic flow information in order to establish potential harms and benefits that could result from the
approval or disapproval of a policy or transaction. Access to these large data sets must be provided by a
robust user interface (UI) with a variety of functions for up to 10 analysts.
2.2
SCOPE
The Department seeks a data solution that will complement information available in the DOT-produced
DB1B, and OAG Schedule sets. While these datasets provide some of the information the Department
needs, they do not include full information on airfare, demand, and schedule and capacity, including fleet
information by aircraft and flight. DOT-collected sources only provide fare and demand data for domestic
and a limited set of U.S.-international itineraries. These sources do not offer comprehensive U.S.-
international or international-international market data for all airlines-information that is critical for the
OAA to conduct complete, statutorily required and ad-hoc analyses of critical aviation markets. These
analyses support a range of functions, including managing traffic restrictions during pandemics and wars,
conducting strategic assessments for bilateral and multilateral air service agreements, and evaluating airline
alliances and merger proposals. Commercially available products provide essential complementary data to
fill the critical gaps in the data collected by the DOT.
Uses: OAA staff will use the data from this tool for the following statutorily required and mission critical
activities:
1) Evaluating airline transactions, such as applications for Antitrust Immunity (ATI) between U.S. and
foreign carriers. Per 49 U.S.C 41309, staff must analyze the extent to which providing ATI to a joint
venture between a U.S. airline and its foreign partner is anticompetitive. The tool will enable users to
access both pre- and custom-designed business intelligence reports accessing all the data defined below,
thereby enabling analysts to determine market competitiveness. Analysts utilize the following inputs to
evaluate the competitive implications of allowing a U.S. airline and its foreign partner to achieve merger-
like synergies in the relevant U.S. to foreign market:
a. Market sizes for U.S. domestic, U.S.-foreign, and foreign-foreign markets at country, regional, as well
as city/airport pair levels.
b. Fares, by service class, for U.S. domestic, U.S.- foreign, and foreign- foreign markets at country,
regional, as well as city/airport pair levels in which fares for all markets are similarly obtained and can be
compared with each other for competitive analysis.
c. Traffic shares by airline: Evaluate market share (how much each traffic each airline in a given
market carries as a percentage of the total) at regional, country pair, and city/ airport pair levels
buy airline.
d. Capacity/Seats (aircraft type) operated in each individual market, i.e. the number of seats on
aircraft on a market-by-market basis by Service Class.
e. Capacity and demand by Onboard Service Class offered.
f. Advance bookings information, allowing analysts to understand how demand is taking shape
across domestic and global markets. Forward looking data through advanced booking
information provides insights to assess the credibility of ATI and route selection applications.
Such applications are often supported by market projections based on leading market
indicators. Advance booking information will also provide the Office of the Secretary the
most current pulse of the economic health of the aviation industry.
4 of 62
g. Fair Share/ QSI information, allowing analysts to understand how much share airlines should
naturally earn based on schedule and capacity in all markets.
2) Merger Evaluations: OAA supports the DOJ-led merger analysis by identifying the effects of carrier
consolidation on country-level, regional-level, and city and airport-level markets both domestically and
internationally.
3) Carrier selection decisions: OAA supports Department efforts to award new slot pairs at slot constrained
airports, as well as international route selection proceedings in markets where route authorities are limited.
Analysts use market share information, schedule information, and fare information in the tool and provide
decision makers with recommended selection options in line with the accompanying selection criteria.
4) Ad-hoc analyses of aviation industry trends: Analysts regularly provide decision makers up to the
Secretary with as-needed industry analysis. The tool will provide comprehensive data necessary for these
analyses that eclipses the types of market data available only through Department resources.
3. DESCRIPTION/TECHNICAL APPROACH
Data requirements for the elements and purposes outlined above:
1. Global origination and destination (OD) data, fare data, service class information, fair share/QSI
data, and local and flow data by route and carrier.
2. Global schedule data by airline: historical, current, and future schedule information for global
carriers that includes flight level granularity: flight number, arrival and departure times, aircraft
type, number of seats on aircraft on a market-by-market basis.
3. Current and historical fleet information per airline (i.e., a fleet database), with capacity and cabin
configuration; also includes seat capacity and cabin class by aircraft and flight.
4. Advanced booking data by market and airline. The advanced booking data should be derived from
airline industry sources, such as airlines, global distribution systems (GDS), or screen scraping
providers.
5. Data should be available going back to at least 2005, if not further, and include attribute data for
airports and air carriers.
Data updates are also provided as a component of the annual contract. These data updates include:
OAG, Innovata or comparable schedule product updates, minimum of weekly.
Regular updates, as frequently as possible but prefer monthly, to the demand and fare file which
includes the following elements/attributes: updated traffic, fare, load factor, booking, and on-time
performance data.
User Requirements and support requirements: Solution must support a minimum of 10 users and provide
a functionally robust user interface (UI) that will enable analysts to create output by, at minimum non-
directional or directional, marketing carrier, operating carrier, or both, and aggregations by month, year,
or quarter. Users should be able to make custom reports in addition to having access to pre-defined
reports for easy and efficient access to information.
5 of 62
Access to the tool, the ability to run it and query the hosted data should be on a 24/7 basis.
Also to be included with the requirement is Customer Support Services, which shall include an online
customer support website and/or telephone number.
User Training: The requirement shall include three days of new user or refresher training for up to 10
users, or three days of advanced user training for up to three users, each year as needed. Training shall
take place in DOT's offices in Washington, DC, or if such training can successfully be accomplished
virtually, by means of Zoom or Microsoft Teams. Scheduling of the training covered under this section
requires a minimum of a 90-day notice and training dates must be mutually agreed upon.
This proposal is valid for 90 days from the date it is delivered to the US Department of Transportation.
A demonstration of the solution shall be made available by Offerors to DOT personnel and shall constitute
a decisional criterial for selection of the contract award by the selection team.
4. DELIVERABLES AND PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (POP)
Project Deliverables
Table 4-1. Deliverables and Target Dates for Funding under this Agreement
Task
Deliverable/Milestone/Activity
Target Completion
Date
1
Software application and maintenance
April 30, 2026
2
Provider travel training-only if needed
April 30, 2026
Observance of Legal Holidays and Excused Absence
a. The Government hereby provides notice, and Contractor hereby acknowledges receipt that
Government personnel observe the listed days as holidays:
Date
Holiday
January 1
New Year's Day
Third Monday in January
Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Third Monday in February
Washington's Birthday
Last Monday in May
Memorial Day
June 19
Juneteenth
July 4
Independence Day
First Monday in September
Labor Day
Second Monday in October
Columbus Day
November 11
Veterans Day
Fourth Thursday in November
Thanksgiving Day
December 25
Christmas Day
January 20 every four years
Inauguration Day
6 of 62
b. In addition to the days designated as holidays, the Government observes the
following days:
Any other day designated by Federal Statute
Any other day designated by Executive Order
Any other day designated by the President's Proclamation
6. RESOURCE PLAN
The Contractor's resource plan for the total cost estimate of $
, as provided in Section 1.0,
is shown in Table 6-1. The initial funding provided for this work is $
, and the remaining
funding is anticipated to be provided through modifications.
Table 6-1, Contractor Resource Plan
Resource Category
Initial Funding
Anticipated Future Funding
Total Estimated Cost
Direct Labor
Contracts
Travel
Other
Total:
7. AMENDMENTS
Adjustments or modifications to this SOW must be made by mutual consent of the parties, by the
issuance of a written modification, signed and dated by all parties prior to any changes being performed
or the end of the period of performance.
8. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE
The Period of Performance (POP) for this contract service shall be 12-months from award date, for the
Base Year, followed by four (4) one-year Option Years. The effective or start date and termination date
for this contract's Period of Performance shall be specified in the contract award.
Approximate Dates:
Base Period:
May 1, 2026, through April 30, 2027
Option Period One:
May 1, 2027, through April 30, 2028
Option Period Two: May 1, 2028, through April 30, 2029
Option Period Three: May 1, 2029, through April 30, 2030
Option Period Four: May 1, 2030, through April 30, 2031
9. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE
Performance of on-site duties will take place in DOT Headquarters, 1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E.
Washington D.C., unless otherwise directed.
7 of 62
10.
INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE
FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
The contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were
given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer shall make their full text available. Also, the full
text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address:
www.acquisition.gov/far
FAR 52.246-4 Inspection of Services Fixed Price (AUG 1996)
The Contracting Officer (CO), or his duly authorized representative, is authorized to perform inspection on
behalf of the Government for acceptance of all services to be provided. In this regard, the Government
Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) is an authorized technical representative of the Contracting
Officer. Final acceptance of all services under this contract shall be made in writing by the COR designated
in writing by the Contracting Officer.
The COR listed herein has been delegated authority to inspect and accept all services, reports and required
deliverables or outputs for the contract.
On an ongoing basis, Government personnel shall conduct inspections of the Contractor's work, primarily
utilizing the method identified under this contract.
Government inspection and acceptance of services, reports and other required deliverables or outputs shall
take place at the Government's site identified in the Contract.
11.
DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE
FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they
were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer (CO) shall make their full text available.
Also, the full text of a contract provision may be accessed electronically at this address:
www.acquisition.gov/far/
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clauses:
CLAUSE
TITLE
DATE
X
52.242-15
Stop Work Order
AUG 1989
X
52.242-17
Government Delay of Work
APR 1984
X
52.247-35
F.O.B. Destination, Within
APR 1984
Consignee's Premises
8 of 62
12. CONFLICT OF INTEREST
If for any reason, OST OAA personnel, or the contractor determines that a potential, perceived or real
conflict of interest exists, the contract employee that is the source of the conflict shall cease all work.
13. CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRIVACY
All financial, statistical, personal, technical and other data and information relating to Departmental
Office of Human Resource Management operations, and that are designated confidential by said
organization (i.e., medical, personal and other information related to requests for reasonable
accommodations for individuals with disabilities) and made available to the Contractor in order to carry
out this Contract, or that becomes available to the Contractor in carrying out this contract, shall be
protected by the Contractor from unauthorized use and disclosure through the observance of the same, or
more effective procedural requirements, as are applicable to human resource operations. The Contractor
shall not be required to keep confidential, any data or information which is or becomes publicly available,
is already rightfully in the Contractor's possession, is independently developed by the Contractor outside
the scope of this Contract or is rightfully obtained from third parties. Under certain circumstances,
Contractor personnel may be required to sign Nondisclosure Agreements (such as the example shown in
Attachment 1) or similar commitments specific to a given program or event.
14. SAFEGUARD OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
The contractor must protect the privacy of the individuals whose data is entered into the Federal
Personnel Payroll System in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 USC 552). It meets the
requirements of National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication (FIPS) 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and
Information Systems. The contractor must further agree to follow the requirements found in DOT
Information Technology and Information Assurance Policy 034, Reporting Cyber Security Incidents and
Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information Exposures for the U.S. Department of Transportation.
15. CONTACTS
15.1 CONTRACTING OFFICER (CO)
The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the
expenditure of public funds. Only the Contracting Officer has authority to: (1) increase or decrease the
award amount; (2) direct or negotiate any changes; (3) modify or extend the period of performance; (4)
change the schedule of completion; (5) authorize payment under this PO; and (6) otherwise modify any
terms or conditions of this Order.
The following individual (s) will be the Government's points of contact during the performance of this
contract:
Contracting Officer:
TBD
Contact Specialist:
TBD
9 of 62
15.2 CONTRACTING OFFICER REPRESENTATIVE (COR)
1252.242-73 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (OCT 1994)
(a) The Contracting Officer may designate Government personnel to act as the Contracting Officer's
Representative (COR) to perform functions under the contract such as review and/or inspection and
acceptance of supplies, services, including construction, and other functions of a technical nature. The
Contracting Officer will provide a written notice of such designation to the Contractor within five
working days after contract award or for construction, not less than five working days prior to giving the
contractor the notice to proceed. The designation letter will set forth the authorities and limitations of the
COR under the contract.
(b) The Contracting Officer cannot authorize the COR or any other representative to sign documents (i.e.,
contracts, contract modifications, etc.) that require the signature of the Contracting Officer.
The COR is not authorized to change the scope of work or specifications as stated in this Contract, to
make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government, or to authorize any changes which affect
the Contract price, task schedule, period of performance or other terms or conditions.
The Contracting Officer Representative during the performance of this contract is:
Name: TBD
The COR has the responsibility to inspect all deliverables and services and authorization to certify (but
not to reject or deny) invoices for payment. The authority to reject an invoice or assess deductions on an
invoice is expressly reserved for the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer is the only individual
who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds. The technical
administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of the terms and conditions
of this contract. Any such revision shall be authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer.
16.
KEY PERSONNEL
The contractor shall provide and maintain in the spaces below, the names and phone numbers of key
personnel that shall perform under the terms of the contract. These personnel shall be reachable by phone
twenty-four hours a day. When contractor's first available key personnel selection becomes unavailable to
render services, the contract is responsible for providing a back-up with equal or greater knowledge and
experience as identified in the contract.
All onsite employees will sign Non-disclosure Agreement (See Attachment 1).
The personnel and/or facilities as specified below are considered essential to the work being performed
hereunder and may, with the consent of the contracting parties, be changed from time to time during the
course of the contract by adding or deleting personnel, labor categories, and/or facilities, as appropriate.
Prior to removing, replacing, or diverting any of the specified individuals or facilities, the Contractor
shall notify in writing, and receive consent from, the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance of
the action and shall submit justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to
permit evaluation of the impact on this contract.
10 of 62
The Contractor shall not remove, replace, or divert any key personnel and/or facilities without
obtaining the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer may ratify in
writing the change, and such ratification shall constitute the consent of the Contracting Officer
required by this clause.
16.1. TAR 1252.215-70 KEY PERSONNEL AND/OR FACILITIES (OCT 1994)
The personnel and/or facilities as specified in paragraph (c) are considered essential to the work
being performed hereunder and may, with the consent of the contracting parties, be changed from
time to time during the course of the contract by adding or deleting personnel and/or facilities, as
appropriate. Prior to removing, replacing, or diverting any of the specified individuals or facilities,
the Contractor shall notify, in writing, and receive consent from, the Contracting Officer reasonably
in advance of the action and shall submit justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient
detail to permit evaluation of the impact on this contract. No diversion shall be made by the
Contractor without the written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer may
ratify, in writing, the change and such ratification shall constitute the consent of the Contracting
Officer required by this clause. The Key Personnel under this Contract are:
Name
Title
TBD
TBD
16.2 ACCEPTANCE OF KEY PERSONNEL - SUBSTITUTION/REPLACEMENT
In evaluating the justification and proposed substitution(s) of key personnel throughout the period of
performance of this contract, the Contracting Officer reserves the right to make an assessment of the
technical and/or professional qualifications of the proposed substituting individual(s). The
Contracting Officer further reserves the right to disallow the utilization of the proposed substituting
individual(s) for performance of the subject contract, when the technical and/or professional
qualifications of the proposed individuals are determined, by the Contracting Officer, (1) not to be
substantially equivalent to the technical and/or professional qualifications of the key personnel they
are to substitute, or (2) not sufficient to reasonably insure successful performance or otherwise
endanger project performance, progressions, or completion.
17.
CONTRCTOR STAFF QUALIFICATIONS
The contractor should structure staff in a manner that is the most efficient to ensure quality products
and services are delivered and contain expertise in their product. The contractor shall include the
qualifications of staff assigned to the offering. This includes years of a minimum of five (5) years'
experience gathering, compiling and analyzing data and software, congruent certifications held and
minimum Bachelor's Degree.
18.
CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRIVACY
All financial, statistical, personal, technical and other data and information relating to Departmental
Office of Human Resource Management operations, and that are designated confidential by said
11 of 62
organization (i.e., medical, personal and other information related to requests for reasonable
accommodations for individuals with disabilities) and made available to the Contractor in order to carry
out this Contract, or that becomes available to the Contractor in carrying out this contract, shall be
protected by the Contractor from unauthorized use and disclosure through the observance of the same, or
more effective procedural requirements, as are applicable to human resource operations. The Contractor
shall not be required to keep confidential, any data or information which is or becomes publicly available,
is already rightfully in the Contractor's possession, is independently developed by the Contractor outside
the scope of this Contract or is rightfully obtained from third parties. Under certain circumstances,
Contractor personnel may be required to sign Nondisclosure Agreements (such as the example shown in
Attachment 1) or similar commitments specific to a given program or event.
19.
SAFEGUARD OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
The contractor must protect the privacy of the individuals whose data is entered into the Federal
Personnel Payroll System in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 USC 552). It meets the
requirements of National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication (FIPS) 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and
Information Systems. The contractor must further agree to follow the requirements found in DOT
Information Technology and Information Assurance Policy 034, Reporting Cyber Security Incidents and
Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information Exposures for the U.S. Department of Transportation.
20.
TECHNICAL INSTRUCTIONS
The performance of all contract work is subject to the technical instructions given by the DOT
Contracting Officer Technical Representative. These instructions will consist of available assumptions,
general guidance, supplemental details affecting projects, coordination issues/requirements, and liaison
matters involving DOT's agencies. Cooperation with the DOT personnel are of paramount importance in
performing Task Order work.
21.
TECHNICAL DIRECTION
The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or changes which constitute work not within the
general scope of the resultant contract, or change the expressed terms and conditions incorporated into the
contract, or which constitute a basis for increase in the contract amount or extension of the contract
performance period. The COR may provide technical direction on contract performance. As used. herein
technical direction is direction to the Contractor, which confirms the results of meetings, fills in details,
requires pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, or otherwise serves to accomplish the contract SOW.
Technical direction shall be issued in writing by the COR or confirmed by him/her in writing within five
(5) calendar days after verbal issuance.
The Contractor shall express its concurrence that any such technical direction is entirely within the scope
of this contract and consistent with this provision by endorsing the written direction of the work so
directed.
If the Contractor should, during the course of the contract, interpret any advice or comments from the
Contracting Officer's Representative as constituting additions or revisions to the scope of the resultant
12 of 62
contract, he/ she shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer so as to obtain official confirmation and
refrain from performing any work from such advice or comments until confirmed by the Contracting
Officer.
Assure that the Contractor performs the technical requirements of the contract in accordance with the
contract terms, conditions, and specifications. Perform or cause to be performed, inspections necessary in
connection with a) above and require the Contractor to correct all deficiencies; perform acceptance for the
Government.
Maintain all liaison and direct communications with the Contractor's task order manager. Written
communications with the Contractor and documents shall be signed as Contracting Officer's
Representative with a copy furnished to the Contracting Officer.
Issue written interpretations of technical requirements of Government drawings, designs, and
specifications.
Monitor the Contractor's production or performance progress and notify the Contractor in writing of
deficiencies observed during surveillance, and direct appropriate action for corrections. Record and report
to the Contracting Officer incidents of faulty or nonconforming work, delays or problems.
Obtain necessary security clearance and appropriate identification if access to Government facilities is
required. If required, ensure that Government furnished property is available when required.
22.
UNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENT
The Government program manager or any other client representative is not authorized to change any of
the terms and conditions of the resultant task order. Changes, if any, shall be made by the Contracting
Officer only.
23.
CONTRACTOR POINT OF CONTACT
The following individual authorized to communicate with the Government on behalf of the Contractor
company:
Name:
Title:
Number:
email address
The contractor's representative shall be responsible for all contract administration issues and shall act as
the central point of contact with the Government for all such issues. The representative shall have full
authority to act for the contractor in all contractual matters. The representative shall be able to fluently
read, write, and speak the English language.
24.
ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause -
13 of 62
(1) Contract financing payment has the meaning given in FAR 32.001.
(2) Payment request means a bill, voucher, invoice, or request for contract financing payment or invoice
payment with associated supporting documentation. The payment request must comply with the
requirements identified in FAR 32.905(b), "Content of Invoices," this clause, and the applicable Payment
clause included in this contract.
(3) Electronic form means an automated system transmitting information electronically according to the
accepted electronic data transmission methods and formats identified in paragraph (c) of this clause.
Facsimile, email, and scanned documents are not acceptable electronic forms for submission of payment
requests.
(4) Invoice payment has the meaning given in FAR 32.001.
(b) ELECTRONIC PAYMENT REQUESTS. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, the
contractor shall submit payment requests in electronic form. Purchases paid with a Governmentwide
commercial purchase card are considered to be an electronic transaction for purposes of this rule, and
therefore no additional electronic invoice submission is required.
(c) The Department of Transportation utilizes the Delphi eInvoicing web-portal for processing invoices.
For vendors submitting invoices, and certain grantees submitting payment requests, they will be required
to submit invoices to OST electronically via the Delphi eInvoicing web-portal which is accessed via
https://einvoice.esc.gov, and is authenticated via www.login.gov. All persons accessing the Delphi
eInvoicing web-portal will be required to have their own unique user Delphi eInvoicing ID and be
credentialed through login.gov. See www.login.gov for instructions.
(d) In order to receive payment and in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act, all invoices submitted as
attachments in the Delphi eInvoicing web-portal shall contain the following:
(1) Invoice number and invoice date.
(2) Period of performance covered by invoice.
(3) Contract number and title.
(4) Task/Delivery Order number and title (if applicable).
(5) Amount billed (by CLIN), current and cumulative.
(6) Total ($) of billing.
(7) Cumulative total billed for all contract work to date.
(8) Name, title, phone number, and mailing address of person to be contacted in the event of a defective
invoice.
If the contract includes allowances for travel, all invoices which include charges pertaining to travel
expenses will catalog a breakdown of reimbursable expenses with the appropriate receipts to substantiate
the travel expenses.
(e) PAYMENT SYSTEM REGISTRATION. All persons accessing the Delphi eInvoicing web-portal will
be required to have their own unique user Delphi eInvoicing ID and password and be credentialed
through login.gov.
14 of 62
(1) ELECTRONIC AUTHENTICATION. See www.login.gov for instructions. Click on the following
link for instructions on establishing a login.gov account: https://login.gov/help/.
(2) To create a login.gov account, the user will need a valid email address and a working phone number.
The user will create a password and then login.gov will reply with an email confirming the email address.
(3) Agency POC's will be responsible for communicating with vendor POC's to initiate the Delphi
eInvoicing account creation process. Vendor POC's who will require access to the eInvoicing web-portal
for invoice submission and payment tracking purposes will be required to provide their full name, valid
email address, and current phone number to the agency POC to initiate the Delphi eInvoicing web-portal
account. Vendor users and the agency POC will be notified via e-mail when the account is created. The
vendor user will be provided detailed instructions for logging into their Delphi eInvoicing account.
The OST POC is:
Omarr Lee
Omarr.Lee@dot.gov
(202) 366-0475
If the Vendor has any general questions or issues accessing the iSupplier web-portal, please have them
contact the ESC iSupplier helpdesk either at:
1.
https://einvoice.esc.gov/
2.
Call Delphi helpdesk at 1-866-641-3500, option #4, then option #3
(4) Training on Delphi. To facilitate use of DELPHI, comprehensive user information is available at
http://einvoice.esc.gov
(5) ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT. Vendors are responsible to contact the Delphi Help Desk when their
firm's points of contacts will no longer be submitting invoices so they can be removed from the system.
Instructions for contacting the Delphi Help Desk can be found at http://einvoice.esc.gov
OST vendors shall submit invoices to OST electronically via the Delphi eInvoicing web-portal. To
initiate this process, you are requested to provide OST with information (company name, contract/task
order number/purchase order (PO) number, and up to two Point of Contact (POC) full names and their
email addresses) as shown on the table below.
Contract #/
Primary
Primary
Company
Task
POC
POC
Primary
Secondary
Secondary
Name
Order #
First
Last
POC
POC First
POC Last
Secondary
Name
Name
email
Name
Name
POC email
Email the above information to the following email address: Omarr.Lee@dot.gov
15 of 62
Please note that the POCs you provide are the individuals you authorize to submit invoices to OST on
behalf of your company. Your POCs will then receive a welcome letter from Delphi eInvoicing
processing center with instructions on creating a Login.gov user account. This account can then be used
to access the eInvoicing web-portal at http://einvoice.esc.gov.
The Vendor shall contact their COR when POCs leave their organization or will no longer be submitting
invoices, with the full name, title, phone number, e-mail address, and user ID of the POC. The user ID
will then be removed. If a user ID becomes inactive/times out due no activity by the POC, the Vendor
shall contact their COR with the full name, title, phone number, e-mail address, and user ID of the POC
to be reactivated. To prevent being timed out due to no-activity, users should login once within 45 days of
their last login.
25. WAIVERS
The Department of Transportation Financial Management officials may, on a case-by-case basis, waive
the requirement to register and use the DELPHI eInvoicing System. Waiver request forms can be
obtained on the DELPHI eInvoicing website (http://www.dot.gov/cfo/delphi-einvoicing-system.html) or
by contacting the COR. All Vendors must explain why they are unable to use or access the Internet to
register and enter payment requests.
All waiver requests shall be sent via mail to:
Director of the Office of Financial Management
US Department of Transportation, B-30
Office of Financial Management, Room W93-431
1200 New Jersey Avenue SE
Washington DC 20590-0001
or electronically to: DOTeInvoicing@dot.gov
The Director of the DOT Office of Financial Management will confirm or deny the request within
approximately 30 days.
If a Vendor is granted a Waiver, Requests for Advance or Reimbursement and required supporting
documents, shall be sent via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following address:
MMAC
OST/AMZ-160
6500 MacArthur Blvd.
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Attention: (Accounting Technician) and (Contract Specialist)
Express Delivery Point of Contact: Lead Account Technician, 405-954-8252
All invoices, regardless of submission method, must identify the COR as the primary invoicing point of
contact
16 of 62
Authorization of invoice payments shall be made after approval of ROI by COR or designated DOCR
official. All invoices must contain the correct contract number and correct extended modification
number, if any (a modification number is an extended number added to the contract number when a
contract has been amended).
Prepare an individual invoice for each EEO complaint investigated. If an investigation complaint has
been consolidated, include all information on one invoice.
Partial Payment: If an EEO complaint assigned for an investigation is terminated through no fault of the
Contractor, payment for the investigation will be a prorated amount equal to the percentage of work
completed by the Contractor.
A percentage payment guideline has been established to determine the amount of payment due for work
completed by the Contractor. The Contractor may bill the agency up to these percentages for work
conducted up to the various stages of the investigation. Please note that these are "Not to Exceed (NTE)"
amounts and require specific justification for any amount billed. If the EEO complaint is withdrawn or
settled by the complainant prior to the completion of the investigation by the Contractor, payment for the
investigation will be prorated based on the "Partial Payment Guidelines" specified below.
26.
CONTRACT CLAUSES
26.1
FAR 2.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
The contract incorporates the following clauses (as indicated by an "X") by reference, with the
same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will
make the full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at
this/these address (es): www.acquisition.gov/far.
FAR
Applicable
FAR Clause Title
Clause
"X"
(Thru FAC 2023-02)
Number
X
52.202-1
Definitions (JUN 2020)
X
52.203-3
Gratuites (APR 1984)
X
52.203-5
Covenant Against Contingent Fees (MAY 2014)
X
52.203-6
Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (JUN 2020)
X
52.203-7
Anti-Kickback Procedures (JUN 2020)
X
52.203-8
Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper
Activity (MAY 2014)
X
52.203-12
Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (JUN
2020)
X
52.203-13
Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (NOV 2021)
17 of 62
FAR
Applicable
FAR Clause Title
Clause
"X"
(Thru FAC 2023-02)
Number
X
52.203-14
Display of Hotline Posters (NOV 2021)
X
52.203-17
Contractor Employee Whistleblower Rights and Requirement to Inform
Employees of Whistleblower Rights (JUN 2023)
X
52.204-4
Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper
(MAY 2011)
X
52.204-9
Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011)
X
52.204-13
System for Award Management Maintenance (OCT 2018)
X
52.204-19
Incorporation by Reference of Representations and Certifications (DEC
2014)
Prohibition on Contracting for Hardware, Software, and Services
X
52.204-23
Developed or Provided by Kaspersky Lab and Other Covered Entities
(DEC 2023)
Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with
X
52.209-6
Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (NOV
2021)
X
52.209-9
Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility
Matters (OCT 2018)
X
52.212-4
Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items (NOV 2023)
Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes or
X
52.212-5
Executive Orders-Commercial Products and Commercial Services
(Oct 2025)
X
52.215-2
Audit and Records-Negotiation (JUN 2020)
X
52.215-8
Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997)
X
52.215-19
Notification of Ownership Changes (OCT 1997)
X
52.215-23
Limitations on Pass through charges (JUN 2020)
X
52.219-8
Utilization of Small Business Concerns (FEB 2024)
X
52.222-2
Payment for Overtime Premiums (JUL 1990)
X
52.222-3
Convict Labor (JUN 2003)
X
52.222-21
Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (APR 2015)
X
52.222-26
Equal Opportunity (SEP 2016)
X
52.222-40
Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations
Act (DEC 2010)
X
52.222-41
Service Contract Labor Standards (AUG 2018)
X
52.222-50
Combating Trafficking in Persons (NOV 2021)
X
52.222-54
Employment Eligibility Verification (MAY 2022)
18 of 62
FAR
Applicable
FAR Clause Title
Clause
"X"
(Thru FAC 2023-02)
Number
X
52.223-6
Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001)
X
52.223-13
Patent Rights-Ownership by the Government (JUN 2014)
X
52.223-18
Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving
(JUN 2020)
X
52.225-13
Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (FEB 2021)
X
52.232-7
Payments Under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts (NOV
2021)
X
52.232-9
Limitation on Withholding Payments (APR 1984)
X
52.232-17
Interest (MAY 2014)
X
52.232-18
Limitations of Funds (APR 1984)
X
52.232-23
Assignment of Claims (MAY 2014)
X
52.232-25
Prompt Payment (JAN 2017)
X
52.232-33
Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - System for Award
Management (OCT 2018)
X
52.232-39
Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations (JUN 2013)
X
52.232-40
Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business (MAR 2023)
X
52.233-1
Disputes (May 2014)
X
Alternate I (DEC 1991)
52.233-3
Protest After Award (AUG 1996)
X
X
Alternate I (JUN 1985)
X
52.233-4
Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004)
X
52.237-3
Continuity of Services (JAN 1991)
X
52.242-3
Penalties for Unallowable Costs (DEC 2022)
X
52.243-1
Changes- Fixed Price (AUG 1987)
X
52.246-23
Limitation of Liability (FEB 1997)
X
52.249-4
Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Short
Form) (APR 1984)
X
52.249-8
Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (Apr 1984)
Please note: All Offerors and prospective contractors must be registered in the System for Award
Management (SAM) with their Online Representations and Certifications Applications (ORCA) at
https://www.sam.gov/ or must provide a completed copy of 52.212-3 with their quotation.
26.2 FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) CLAUSES PROVIDED IN
FULL TEXT
This Contract incorporate the following Federal Acquisition Regulation Clauses provided in full text:
19 of 62
26.2.1 FAR 52.204-1 APPROVAL OF CONTRACT (DEC 1989)
This contract is subject to the written approval of the Contracting Officer, OST Office of
Acquisition Services and shall not be binding until so approved.
(End of clause)
26.2.2 FAR 52.204-24 REPRESENTATION REGARDING CERTAIN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR
EQUIPMENT.
REPRESENTATION REGARDING CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SURVEILLANCE
SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT (Nov 2021)
The Offeror shall not complete the representation at paragraph (d)(1) of this provision if the
Offeror has represented that it "does not provide covered telecommunications equipment or
services as a part of its offered products or services to the Government in the performance of any
contract, subcontract, or other contractual instrument" in paragraph (c)(1) in the provision at
52.204-26, Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation, or in
paragraph (v)(2)(i) of the provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-
Commercial Products or Commercial Services. The Offeror shall not complete the representation
in paragraph (d)(2) of this provision if the Offeror has represented that it "does not use covered
telecommunications equipment or services, or any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services" in paragraph (c)(2) of the provision at 52.204-26, or
in paragraph (v)(2)(ii) of the provision at 52.212-3.
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-
Backhaul, covered telecommunications equipment or services, critical technology, interconnection
arrangements, reasonable inquiry, roaming, and substantial or essential component have the
meanings provided in the clause 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain
Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.
(b) Prohibition. (1) Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after
August 13, 2019, from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or
obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or
services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of
any system. Nothing in the prohibition shall be construed to-
(i) Prohibit the head of an executive agency from procuring with an entity to provide a service
that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection
arrangements; or
(ii) Cover telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or cannot
permit visibility into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise
handles.
(2) Section 889(a)(1)(B) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13,
2020, from entering into a contract or extending or renewing a contract with an entity that uses
20 of 62
any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services as
a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system.
This prohibition applies to the use of covered telecommunications equipment or services,
regardless of whether that use is in performance of work under a Federal contract. Nothing in the
prohibition shall be construed to-
(i) Prohibit the head of an executive agency from procuring with an entity to provide a service that
connects to the facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection
arrangements; or
(ii) Cover telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or cannot
permit visibility into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.
(c) Procedures. The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award
Management (SAM) (https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal awards
for "covered telecommunications equipment or services".
(d) Representation. The Offeror represents that-
(1)
It
will,
will not provide covered telecommunications equipment or services to the
Government in the performance of any contract, subcontract or other contractual instrument
resulting from this solicitation. The Offeror shall provide the additional disclosure information
required at paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the Offeror responds "will" in paragraph (d)(1) of this
section; and
(2) After conducting a reasonable inquiry, for purposes of this representation, the Offeror
represents that-
It
does,
does not use covered telecommunications equipment or services, or use any equipment,
system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services. The Offeror shall
provide the additional disclosure information required at paragraph (e)(2) of this section if the
Offeror responds "does" in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e) Disclosures. (1) Disclosure for the representation in paragraph (d)(1) of this provision. If the
Offeror has responded "will" in the representation in paragraph (d)(1) of this provision, the Offeror
shall provide the following information as part of the offer:
(i) For covered equipment-
(A) The entity that produced the covered telecommunications equipment (include entity name,
unique entity identifier, CAGE code, and whether the entity was the original equipment
manufacturer (OEM) or a distributor, if known);
(B) A description of all covered telecommunications equipment offered (include brand; model
number, such as OEM number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item
description, as applicable); and
(C) Explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications equipment and any factors
relevant to determining if such use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(1)
of this provision.
(ii) For covered services—
(A) If the service is related to item maintenance: A description of all covered telecommunications
services offered (include on the item being maintained: Brand; model number, such as OEM
number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable); or
(B) If not associated with maintenance, the Product Service Code (PSC) of the service being
provided; and explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications services and any
factors relevant to determining if such use would be permissible under the prohibition in
paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.
21 of 62
(2) Disclosure for the representation in paragraph (d)(2) of this provision. If the Offeror has
responded "does" in the representation in paragraph (d)(2) of this provision, the Offeror shall
provide the following information as part of the offer:
(i) For covered equipment-
(A) The entity that produced the covered telecommunications equipment (include entity name,
unique entity identifier, CAGE code, and whether the entity was the OEM or a distributor, if
known);
(B) A description of all covered telecommunications equipment offered (include brand; model
number, such as OEM number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item
description, as applicable); and
(C) Explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications equipment and any factors
relevant to determining if such use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(2)
of this provision.
(ii) For covered services—
(A) If the service is related to item maintenance: A description of all covered telecommunications
services offered (include on the item being maintained: Brand; model number, such as OEM
number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable); or
(B) If not associated with maintenance, the PSC of the service being provided; and explanation of
the proposed use of covered telecommunications services and any factors relevant to determining
if such use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.
[End of Clause]
26.2.3 FAR 52.204-25 PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING FOR CERTAIN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR
EQUIPMENT.
PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING FOR CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT (NOV 2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-
Backhaul means intermediate links between the core network, or backbone network, and the small
subnetworks at the edge of the network (e.g., connecting cell phones/towers to the core telephone
network). Backhaul can be wireless (e.g., microwave) or wired (e.g., fiber optic, coaxial cable,
Ethernet).
Covered foreign country means The People's Republic of China.
Covered telecommunications equipment or services means-
(1) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company or ZTE
Corporation (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities);
22 of 62
(2) For the purpose of public safety, security of Government facilities, physical security
surveillance of critical infrastructure, and other national security purposes, video surveillance and
telecommunications equipment produced by Hytera Communications Corporation, Hangzhou
Hikvision Digital Technology Company, or Dahua Technology Company (or any subsidiary or
affiliate of such entities);
(3) Telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by such entities or using such
equipment; or
(4) Telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services produced or provided by an
entity that the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence or
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes to be an entity owned or
controlled by, or otherwise connected to, the government of a covered foreign country.
Critical technology means-
(1) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List set forth in
the International Traffic in Arms Regulations under subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of
Federal Regulations;
(2) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the
Export Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal
Regulations, and controlled-
(i) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical
and biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or
(ii) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening;
(3) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials,
software, and technology covered by part 810 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to
assistance to foreign atomic energy activities);
(4) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by part 110 of title 10, Code of Federal
Regulations (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material);
(5) Select agents and toxins covered by part 331 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, part 121
of title 9 of such Code, or part 73 of title 42 of such Code; or
(6) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export
Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4817).
Interconnection arrangements means arrangements governing the physical connection of two or
more networks to allow the use of another's network to hand off traffic where it is ultimately
delivered (e.g., connection of a customer of telephone provider A to a customer of telephone
company B) or sharing data and other information resources.
23 of 62
Reasonable inquiry means an inquiry designed to uncover any information in the entity's
possession about the identity of the producer or provider of covered telecommunications
equipment or services used by the entity that excludes the need to include an internal or third-party
audit.
Roaming means cellular communications services (e.g., voice, video, data) received from a visited
network when unable to connect to the facilities of the home network either because signal
coverage is too weak or because traffic is too high.
Substantial or essential component means any component necessary for the proper function or
performance of a piece of equipment, system, or service.
(b) Prohibition. (1) Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after
August 13, 2019, from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or
obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or
services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of
any system. The Contractor is prohibited from providing to the Government any equipment, system,
or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential
component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system, unless an exception at
paragraph (c) of this clause applies or the covered telecommunication equipment or services are
covered by a waiver described in FAR 4.2104.
(2) Section 889(a)(1)(B) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (Pub. L. 115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2020, from
entering into a contract, or extending or renewing a contract, with an entity that uses any equipment,
system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or
essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system, unless an
exception at paragraph (c) of this clause applies or the covered telecommunication equipment or
services are covered by a waiver described in FAR 4.2104. This prohibition applies to the use of
covered telecommunications equipment or services, regardless of whether that use is in
performance of work under a Federal contract.
(c) Exceptions. This clause does not prohibit contractors from providing-
(1) A service that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or
interconnection arrangements; or
(2) Telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or permit visibility
into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.
(d) Reporting requirement. (1) In the event the Contractor identifies covered telecommunications
equipment or services used as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical
technology as part of any system, during contract performance, or the Contractor is notified of such
by a subcontractor at any tier or by any other source, the Contractor shall report the information in
paragraph (d)(2) of this clause to the Contracting Officer, unless elsewhere in this contract are
24 of 62
established procedures for reporting the information; in the case of the Department of Defense, the
Contractor shall report to the website at https://dibnet.dod.mil. For indefinite delivery contracts, the
Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer for the indefinite delivery contract and the
Contracting Officer(s) for any affected order or, in the case of the Department of Defense, identify
both the indefinite delivery contract and any affected orders in the report provided at
https://dibnet.dod.mil.
(2) The Contractor shall report the following information pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this clause
(i) Within one business day from the date of such identification or notification: the contract number;
the order number(s), if applicable; supplier name; supplier unique entity identifier (if known);
supplier Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code (if known); brand; model number
(original equipment manufacturer number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number); item
description; and any readily available information about mitigation actions undertaken or
recommended.
(ii) Within 10 business days of submitting the information in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this clause: any
further available information about mitigation actions undertaken or recommended. In addition, the
Contractor shall describe the efforts it undertook to prevent use or submission of covered
telecommunications equipment or services, and any additional efforts that will be incorporated to
prevent future use or submission of covered telecommunications equipment or services.
(e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph
(e) and excluding paragraph (b)(2), in all subcontracts and other contractual instruments, including
subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
(End of clause)
26.2.4 FAR 52.212.5 - Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or
Executive Orders - Commercial Products and Commercial Services (OCT 2025)
(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses,
which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive
orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services:
(1) 52.203-19, Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or
Statements (JAN 2017) (section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in
subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions)).
(2) 52.204-23, Prohibition on Contracting for Hardware, Software, and Services Developed or
Provided by Kaspersky Lab Covered Entities (DEC 2023) (Section 1634 of Pub. L. 115-91).
(3) 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment. (Nov 2021) (Section 889(a)(1)(A) of Pub. L. 115-232).
25 of 62
(4) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (Nov 2015).
(5) 52.232-40, Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business Subcontractors (MAR
2023) (31 U.S.C. 3903 and 10 U.S.C. 3801).
(6) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).
(7) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Public Laws 108-77
and 108-78 ( 19 U.S.C. 3805 note)).
(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting
Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of
law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services:
X (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (JUN
2020), with Alternate I (Nov 2021) (41 U.S.C. 4704 and 10 U.S.C. 4655).
X (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Nov
2021) (41 U.S.C. 3509)).
X (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (JUN 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)
(4) 52.203-17, Contractor Employee Whistleblower Rights (Nov 2023) ( 41 U.S.C. 4712); this
clause does not apply to contracts of DoD, NASA, the Coast Guard, or applicable elements of the
intelligence community-see FAR 3.900(a).
(5) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (JUN
2020) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
(6) [Reserved].
-
(7) 52.204-14, Service Contract Reporting Requirements (OCT 2016) (Pub. L. 111-117, section
743 of Div. C).
(8) 52.204-15, Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery
Contracts (OCT 2016) (Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Div. C).
(9) 52.204-27, Prohibition on a ByteDance Covered Application (JUN 2023) (Section 102 of
Division R of Pub. L. 117-328).
(10) 52.204-28, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders-Federal Supply
Schedules, Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts, and Multi-Agency Contracts. (DEC
2023) (Pub. L. 115-390, title II).
(11)
26 of 62
(i) 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders-Prohibition. (DEC
2023) (Pub. L. 115-390, title II).
(ii) Alternate I (DEC 2023) of 52.204-30.
X (12) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors
Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Nov 2021) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
X (13) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility
Matters (OCT 2018) ( 41 U.S.C. 2313).
(14) [Reserved].
-
(15) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (OCT 2022)
(15 U.S.C. 657a).
(16) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns
(OCT 2022) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)
(15 U.S.C. 657a).
(17) [Reserved]
-
(18)
(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2020) 15 U.S.C. 644).
(ii) Alternate I (MAR 2020) of 52.219-6.
-
(19)
(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2020) 15 U.S.C. 644).
(ii) Alternate I (MAR 2020) of 52.219-7.
(20) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (FEB 2024) ( 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and
(3)).
(21)
(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (SEP 2023) ( 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).
(ii) Alternate I (Nov 2016) of 52.219-9.
-
(iii) Alternate II (Nov 2016) of 52.219-9.
(iv) Alternate III (JUN 2020) of 52.219-9.
(v) Alternate IV (SEP 2023) of 52.219-9.
(22)
(i) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (MAR 2020) ( 15 U.S.C. 644(r)).
(ii) Alternate I (MAR 2020) of 52.219-13.
(23) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (OCT 2022) ( 15 U.S.C. 637s).
27 of 62
(24) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages-Subcontracting Plan (SEP
2021) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
(25) 52.219-27, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Service-Disabled Veteran-
Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the SDVOSB Program (FEB 2024)
(15 U.S.C. 657f).
(26)
(i) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (FEB 2024)
(15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
(ii) Alternate I (MAR 2020) of 52.219-28.
(27) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Economically
Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business Concerns (OCT 2022) ( 15 U.S.C. 637(m)).
(28) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Women-Owned Small
Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program (OCT 2022)
(15 U.S.C. 637(m)).
(29) 52.219-32, Orders Issued Directly Under Small Business Reserves (MAR
2020) ( 15 U.S.C. 644(r)).
(30) 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule (SEP 2021) ( 15U.S.C. 637(a)(17)).
(31) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (JUN 2003) (E.O.11755).
(32) 52.222-19, Child Labor-Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (FEB 2024).
(33) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (APR 2015).
(34)
(i) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (SEP 2016) (E.O.11246).
(ii) Alternate I (FEB 1999) of 52.222-26.
(35)
(i) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (JUN 2020) ( 38 U.S.C. 4212).
(ii) Alternate I (JUL 2014) of 52.222-35.
(36)
(i) 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities (JUN 2020) ( 29 U.S.C. 793).
(ii) Alternate I (JUL 2014) of 52.222-36.
(37) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (JUN 2020) ( 38 U.S.C. 4212).
(38) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC
2010) (E.O. 13496).
(39)
(i) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Nov 2021) ( 22 U.S.C. chapter 78 and E.O.
13627).
(ii) Alternate I (MAR 2015) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. chapter 78 and E.O. 13627).
28 of 62
(40) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (MAY 2022) (Executive Order 12989).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other
types of commercial products or commercial services as prescribed in FAR 22.1803.)
(41)
(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated
Items (May 2008) ( 42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of
commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
(ii) Alternate I (MAY 2008) of 52.223-9 ( 42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to
the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
(42) 52.223-11, Ozone-Depleting Substances and High Global Warming Potential
Hydrofluorocarbons (Jun 2016) (E.O. 13693).
(43) 52.223-12, Maintenance, Service, Repair, or Disposal of Refrigeration Equipment and Air
Conditioners (JUN 2016) (E.O. 13693).
(44)
-
(i) 52.223-13, Acquisition of EPEAT@-Registered Imaging Equipment (JUN 2014) (E.O.s
13423 and 13514).
(ii) Alternate I (OCT 2015) of 52.223-13.
-
(45)
(i) 52.223-14, Acquisition of EPEAT@-Registered Televisions (JUN 2014) (E.O.s 13423 and
13514).
(ii) Alternate I (Jun2014) of 52.223-14.
-
(46) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy
Consuming Products (MAY 2020) ( 42 U.S.C. 8259b).
(47)
(i) 52.223-16, Acquisition of EPEAT@-Registered Personal Computer Products (OCT
2015) (E.O.s 13423 and 13514).
(ii) Alternate I (JUN 2014) of 52.223-16.
(48) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (JUN
2020) (E.O. 13513).
(49) 52.223-20, Aerosols (JUN 2016) (E.O. 13693).
-
(50) 52.223-21, Foams (Jun2016) (E.O. 13693).
-
(51)
(i) 52.224-3 Privacy Training (JAN 2017) (5 U.S.C. 552 a).
(ii) Alternate I (JAN 2017) of 52.224-3.
-
(52)
(i) 52.225-1, Buy American-Supplies (OCT 2022) 41 U.S.C. chapter 83).
29 of 62
(ii) Alternate I (OCT 2022) of 52.225-1.
(53)
(i) 52.225-3, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act (NOV 2023) (19
U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, 19 U.S.C.
chapter 29 (sections 4501-4732), Public Law 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53,
109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43.
(ii) Alternate I [Reserved].
(iii) Alternate II (DEC 2022) of 52.225-3.
(iv) Alternate III (FEB 2024) of 52.225-3.
-
(v) Alternate IV (Oct 2022) of 52.225-3.
-
(54) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (NOV 2023) ( 19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
(55) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (FEB 2021) (E.O.'s, proclamations,
and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the
Treasury).
(56) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United
States (Oct 2016) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. Subtitle A, Part V, Subpart G Note).
(57) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
(58) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov2007)
( 42 U.S.C. 5150).
(59) 52.229-12, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements (FEB 2021).
(60) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial
Services (Nov 2021) (41 U.S.C. 4505, 10 U.S.C. 3805).
(61) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Products and Commercial
Services (Nov 2021) (41 U.S.C. 4505, 10 U.S.C. 3805).
(62) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award
Management (Oct2018) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
(63) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other than System for Award
Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
(64) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (MAY 2014) 31 U.S.C. 3332).
|
(65) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (AUG 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).
-
(66) 52.242-5, Payments to Small Business Subcontractors (JAN 2017) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(13)).
-
30 of 62
(67)
(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Nov 2021) (46
U.S.C. 55305 and 10 U.S.C. 2631).
(ii) Alternate I (APR 2003) of 52.247-64.
-
(iii) Alternate II (Nov 2021) of 52.247-64.
(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial
services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference
to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial
products and commercial services:
(1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards (AUG 2018) (41 U.S.C. chapter67).
-
(2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal
Hires (MAY 2014) ( 29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards-Price
Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (AUG
2018) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards-Price
Adjustment (May 2014) (29U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to
Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements
(May 2014) ( 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to
Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (MAY 2014) ( 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(7) 52.222-55, Minimum Wages for Contractor Workers Under Executive Order 14026 (JAN
2022).
(8) 52.222-62, Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706 (JAN 2022) (E.O. 13706).
(9) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Jun 2020)
( 42 U.S.C. 1792).
(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of
this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of
the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101, on the date of award of this contract,
and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records-Negotiation.
(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the
Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly
pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
31 of 62
(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials,
and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this
contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the
other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating
to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination
settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement
of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals,
litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices,
and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to
create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business
or pursuant to a provision of law.
(e)
(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this
clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph
(e)(1), in a subcontract for commercial products or commercial services. Unless otherwise indicated
below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-
(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Nov 2021) ( 41 U.S.C. 3509).
(ii) 52.203-17, Contractor Employee Whistleblower Rights (Nov 2023) (41 U.S.C. 4712).
(iii) 52.203-19, Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or
Statements (Jan 2017) (section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in
subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions)).
(iv) 52.204-23, Prohibition on Contracting for Hardware, Software, and Services Developed or
Provided by Kaspersky Lab Covered Entities (DEC 2023) (Section 1634 of Pub. L. 115-91).
(v) 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment. (Nov 2021) (Section 889(a)(1)(A) of Pub. L. 115-232).
(vi) 52.204-27, Prohibition on a ByteDance Covered Application (JUN 2023) (Section 102 of
Division R of Pub. L. 117-328).
(vii)
(A) 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders-Prohibition. (DEC
2023) ( Pub. L. 115-390, title II).
(B) Alternate I (DEC 2023) of 52.204-30.
(viii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (FEB 2024) ( 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and
(3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract
(except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds the applicable threshold specified in
FAR 19.702(a) on the date of subcontract award, the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in
lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities.
32 of 62
(ix) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (APR 2015).
(x) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (SEP 2015) (E.O.11246).
(xi) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (JUN 2020) ( 38 U.S.C. 4212).
(xii) 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities (JUN 2020) ( 29 U.S.C. 793).
(xiii) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (JUN 2020) ( 38 U.S.C. 4212).
(xiv) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations
Act (DEC 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR
clause 52.222-40.
(xv) 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards (AUG 2018) 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(xvi)
(A) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Nov 2021) ( 22 U.S.C. chapter 78 and
E.O 13627).
(B) Alternate I (MAR 2015) of 52.222-50 22 U.S.C. chapter 78 and E.O. 13627).
(xvii) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to
Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements
(May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(xviii) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to
Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (MAY 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67).
(xix) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (MAY 2022) (E.O. 12989).
(xx) 52.222-55, Minimum Wages for Contractor Workers Under Executive Order 14026 (JAN
2022).
(xxi) 52.222-62, Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706 (JAN 2022) (E.O. 13706).
(xxii)
(A) 52.224-3, Privacy Training (Jan 2017) ( 5 U.S.C. 552a).
(B) Alternate I (JAN 2017) of 52.224-3.
(xxiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United
States (OCT 2016) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. Subtitle A, Part V, Subpart G Note).
33 of 62
(xxiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (JUN
2020) 42 U.S.C. 1792). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR
clause 52.226-6.
(xxv) 52.232-40, Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business Subcontractors (Mar
2023) ( 31 U.S.C. 3903 and 10 U.S.C. 3801). Flow down required in accordance with
paragraph (c) of 52.232-40.
(xxvi) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Nov
2021) ( 46 U.S.C. 55305 and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with
paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
(2) While not required, the Contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial
products and commercial services a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its
contractual obligations.
(End of Clause)
26.2.5 FAR 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)
The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the
rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to
prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The
Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor prior to the
expiration of the current performance period.
(End of Clause)
26.6 FAR 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)
(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor
within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of
its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not
commit the Government to an extension.
(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include
this option clause.
(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall
not exceed five (5).
(End of Clause)
27.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT) CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE
This contract incorporates the following Transportation Acquisition Regulation clauses by
reference (as indicated by an "X"), with the same force and effect as if they were given in full
text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make the full text available.
34 of 62
Applicable
TAR Clause
TAR Clause Title
"X"
Number
X
1252.223-73
Seat Belt Use Policies and Programs (NOV 2022)
X
1252.242-71
Contractor Testimony (NOV 2022)
X
1252.242-72
Dissemination of Contract Information (NOV 2022)
28.
INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS
28.1
QUOTATONS DELIVERY
FAR 52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (SEP 2023),
applies to this acquisition.
The Technical and Price proposals shall be submitted in two separate volumes. Offers must include the
following information on the cover page of each volume:
1. Solicitation Number
2. The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers.
3. The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror.
4. A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance
with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include services literature, or other
documents, if necessary.
5. Price and any discount terms
6. "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address
7. A completed copy of the representations and certifications at Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the
offeror shall complete electronically)
8. Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments
9. Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and
relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract
numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and
10. If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of
agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that
fail to furnish required representations or information or reject the terms and conditions of
the solicitation may be excluded from consideration.
11. Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are
responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to
35 of 62
reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the
solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 12:00 p.m.,
Eastern Time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are
due.
12. Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government
office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late"
and will not be considered.
13. Unique Entity Identifier (UEI)
14. North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) Code: 541511
15. Product Service Code (PSC): B539
16. The validity period of the quote [Offeror's Quotation(s) must be valid for at least 90
calendar days]
17. The offer shall also indicate a statement that the SAM record has been entered in
www.sam.gov or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and
applicable to this solicitation.
29. BASIS FOR AWARD
This acquisition will be procured in accordance with FAR Part 12 - Acquisition of Commercial Items.
Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the
offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However,
the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be
necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other
than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received, in accordance with
FAR 52.212-1(g).
The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose
offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors
considered. The Government reserves the right to require the Offerors to submit additional information as
necessary to support a pre- award determination of responsibility.
Proposals will be carefully evaluated based on the demonstrated capabilities of the prospective
contractor in relation to the needs of the requirement, set forth in Sections 1 and 4 above.
The Government will evaluate proposals and make a best value award decision based on the following
factors:
Proposals shall be evaluated against the requirements of the solicitation and on the basis of the technical
factors and the price factor.
In making its selection decision, the Government will consider the following criteria listed in descending
order of importance:
36 of 62
Technical Capability/Approach/Frequency of Data Updates/Comprehensiveness of Historical
Data
Presentation/Demonstration of Capabilities
Web-based application
Past Performance
Price
The technical capability factors, presentation/demonstration of capabilities, web-based application, and
past performance, combined are more important than the price factor.
30. WHAT TO SUBMIT
FAR 52.212-2 EVALUATION- COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
(NOV 2021)
The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror
whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price
and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:
Offerors shall submit a proposal consisting of two (2) volumes: Volume I (Technical) and
Volume II (Cost/Price).
Volume I - Technical Capacity/Approach/Frequency of Data Updates/Comprehensiveness of
Historical Data
The overall technical proposal shall not exceed 60 pages (Excluding Resumes). The Technical
Proposal, Volume I, will be evaluated in accordance with the requirements detailed in section this RFP.
Volume I: Technical Proposal shall be submitted in (4) parts:
Part I: Technical Capacity/Approach/Frequency of Data Updates/Comprehensiveness of
Historical Data
Part II: Presentation/Demonstration of Capabilities
Part III: Web-based application
Part IV: Past Performance
Part V: Price
Volume I shall be presented in 11- point font or larger. The dimensions of each page in Volume I shall
be no greater than 8.5 inches by 11 inches. Footnotes, legends, or labels associated with tables or
diagrams, and other information that is ancillary to the main text, may be presented in a font size
smaller than 11- point font, provided that any such smaller font is fully legible.
Resumes are not considered ancillary material and must therefore be presented in 11-point fonts or
larger.
37 of 62
Part I: Technical Capacity/Approach/Frequency of Data Updates/Comprehensiveness of Historical
Data - Page Limit NTE 60 pages.
The Government will evaluate the offeror's proposed approach to technical understanding of the
requirements with the SOW, their corporate knowledge and experience and the relevancy of the
experience. The technical proposal shall provide the general background, experience, and
capabilities, frequency of date and comprehensive ness of historical data.
The technical proposal shall demonstrate the approach, methods and procedures for satisfying the
requirements and a discussion of potential problems to be encountered. The technical proposal shall
demonstrate their procedures for assuring quality in the work and labor categories unique to DOT.
The technical proposal shall be evaluated on the offeror's capabilities, as they relate to key areas in
the SOW, including:
Global origination and destination (OD) data, fare data, service class information, fair share/QSI
data, and local and flow data by route and carrier.
Global schedule data by airline: historical, current, and future schedule information for global
carriers that includes flight level granularity: flight number, arrival and departure times, aircraft
type, number of seats on aircraft on a market-by-market basis.
Current and historical fleet information per airline (i.e., a fleet database), with capacity and cabin
configuration; also includes seat capacity and cabin class by aircraft and flight.
Advanced booking data by market and airline. The advanced booking data should be derived
from airline industry sources, such as airlines, global distribution systems (GDS), or screen
scraping providers.
Data should be available going back to at least 2005, if not further, and include attribute data for
airports and air carriers.
OAG, Innovata or comparable schedule product updates, minimum of weekly.
Regular updates as frequently as possible (monthly preferred), to the demand and fare file which
includes the following elements/attributes: updated traffic, fare, load factor, booking, and on-time
performance data.
Part II:
Presentation/Demonstration of Capabilities - No Page Limit
A demonstration of the solution shall be made available by Offerors to DOT personnel and shall
constitute a decisional criterial for selection of the contract award by the selection team.
The Government will allow the Offeror an opportunity demonstrate its capabilities an understanding of
the requirements within the Statement of Work. It is the Offerors responsibility to schedule a
presentation by the deadline advertised in this RFP.
Offerors shall demonstrate its approach to addressing the work and explain how they will meet the
contract requirements and objectives. Offerors response is not meant to repeat or echo the requirements
within this solicitation, but to demonstrate an understanding of the airline analysis and scheduling
solutions via a web application and any unique experience the offeror's team may consider a to
demonstrate to the government.
38 of 62
Part III:
Web-based Application - (3 pages for each project)
The solution must be web-based and accessible through a website for at least 10 users, each with
dedicate usernames and passwords.
Part VI:
Past Performance
Past Performance will be determined to be "Relevant" or "Non Relevant."
The Offeror shall provide a list of (3) three recent projects completed within last five (5) years that
were similar to the effort described in this solicitation. A minimum of two (2) projects must be
completed by the Prime on the work cited and at least one (1) project must be completed by the
Subcontractor, with all three projects completed in the area of U.S. government technical assistance
and capacity building in an international context. This list should include dates on which the project
began and was completed, total dollar value of the contract, contract number, customer name
including contact information, and a brief synopsis of the project. Additional information may be
provided that helps explain relevant experience in international events management in regions around
the world.
Past performance shall demonstrate at least 8 years of experience and explain how has your company
performed on previous government or private industry customers? Were previous customers
satisfied? Provide past performance ratings from current and or previous customers. Include
references and phone numbers of current and or previous customers where related experience per the
SOW applies.
The Offeror shall provide the following information:
Contract or Agreement Number, Project Name (if applicable) and Current name of the
customer
Point of contact with email address and telephone number
Whether this was a commercial or Government entity
Brief description of the project and type of work performed (clearly show size and scope
relevance to this requirement).
Identities of team members/subcontractors and their roles (If the Offeror was a
subcontractor, provide the percentage of work it performed with a detailed description of
only the actual work performed.)
Contract or Agreement Value
Period of Performance
Project start
Original completion date
Explanation of any changes in performance dates and/or delays
Problems encountered and their resolution.
The Government may contact the customer point of contact (POC) for verification. POC contact
information must be accurate and current. Offerors also shall provide information regarding any
39 of 62
contracts that were terminated for default or convenience of the Government within the past three
years. The Offeror shall provide explanations of the circumstances in each case.
Part V: Price
a.
Price Information
An Offeror shall provide its pricing schedule based on the pricing table template provided. The
proposal shall be prepared in accordance with the Offeror's accounting system and current
business practices.
As part of its price proposal, the Offeror shall also provide the following information:
A.
RFP Number and Project Title
B.
Offeror's Point of contact for this project including name, title, address, phone
number, and email address
C.
Tax Identification Number (TIN)
D.
Unique Entity Identifier (UEI)
E.
North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) Code:
F.
Product Service Code (PSC):
G.
The validity period of the quote [Offeror's quote(s) must be valid
for at least 90 calendar days.]
The vendor's price quote will be evaluated for price reasonableness only if the quoter receives an
overall technical rating of ACCEPTABLE. The vendor's price quote will also be evaluated to
determine whether the prices are consistent with the vendor's technical quote.
The Cost Proposal will be analyzed and evaluated to determine the reasonableness of the Offeror's
proposed cost. Cost proposals will also be analyzed to assess realism and probable cost to the
Government.
The purpose of this analysis will be to determine if the Offeror's proposed cost reasonably
reflect that the Offeror understands and addresses the Government's requirement(s). The
proposed costs may be adjusted, for the purpose of evaluation, based upon the results of the
price realism assessment.
Note: In the event that no historical record of past performance has been established, the
Offeror will be rated "neutral" for this factor. If the Offeror's established record of past
performance is poor, the Offeror will be given a "poor" rating for the evaluation factor.
OVERALL PROPOSAL RATINGS
Adjectival Ratings for Technical Capacity/Approach/Frequency of Data
Updates/Comprehensiveness of Historical Data, Presentation/Demonstration of Capabilities which
includes Staffing/Resumes and List of Proposed Key Personnel, and Past Performance, Wed-Based
Application, Past Performance, Price and its associated sub-factors are Outstanding, Good,
Acceptable, and Unacceptable, are defined below:
40 of 62
Outstanding - A proposal that satisfies all of the Government's requirements with extensive
detail to indicate feasibility of the approach and shows a thorough understanding of the
problems and offers numerous significant strengths, no deficiencies and weaknesses, with
an overall low degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements.
Good - A proposal that satisfies all of the Government's requirements with adequate detail and
with no more than one (1) deficiency, two (2) significant weaknesses, or three (3) or more
weaknesses to indicate feasibility of the approach and shows an understanding of the problems
with an overall low to moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements.
Acceptable - A proposal that satisfies all of the Government's requirements with minimal
detail and with no more than two (2) deficiencies, three (3) significant weaknesses or four or
more weaknesses to indicate feasibility of the approach and shows a minimal understanding of
the problems, with an overall moderate to high degree of risk in meeting the Government's
requirements.
Unacceptable - A proposal that contains a major error(s), omission(s) or deficiency(ies) that
indicates a lack of understanding of the problems or an approach that cannot be expected to
meet requirements or involves a very high risk; and none of these conditions can be corrected
without a major rewrite or revision of the proposal.
Neutral - A rating of neutral is applicable only to the past performance rating category. A
proposal will receive a neutral rating for past performance when it does not contain any past
performance because the Offeror lacks relevant past performance history and will qualify for a
neutral rating. A rating of neutral is neither negative nor positive.
Below are the definitions used for Adjectival Ratings, which include "significant" strength and
"significant" weakness as subcategories of strengths and weaknesses:
"Deficiency" - is a material failure of a proposal to meet a Government requirement or a
combination of significant weaknesses in a proposal that increases the risk of unsuccessful
contract performance to an unacceptable level.
"Weakness" - a flaw in the proposal that increases the risk of unsuccessful contract performance. A
"significant weakness" in the proposal is a flaw that appreciably increases the risk of unsuccessful
contract performance.
"Strength" - a strength is a proposal characteristic which adds value to the Offeror's Technical or price
proposal by incorporating work methods, Technology, design changes or other benefits which
significantly improve the probability of successful, efficient performance. A significant strength adds
substantial value and appreciably increases the probability of successful performance.
41 of 62
31. ASSUMPTIONS AND CONDITIONS
Contractors are expected to meet all specifications associated with the Statement of Work (SOW)
contained herein. Contractors specifying any assumptions, conditions, or exceptions in their quotes
which are not agreeable to the Government may be considered non-responsive and rejected.
FAR 52.204-7 System for Award Management (OCT 2018)
FAR 52.217-5 Evaluation of Options (JUL 1990)
FAR 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS - COMMERCIAL
ITEMS (FEB 2024)
The Offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the Offeror has completed the annual
representations and certification electronically in the System for Award Management (SAM) accessed
through https://www.sam.gov. If the Offeror has not completed the annual representations and
certifications electronically, the Offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (v) of this provision.
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-
Covered telecommunications equipment or services has the meaning provided in the
clause 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment.
Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern means a small
business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the
management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are
citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part
127, and the concern is certified by SBA or an approved third-party certifier in accordance with 13
CFR 127.300. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB
Program.
Forced or indentured child labor means all work or service-
(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its
nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or
(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which
can be accomplished by process or penalties.
Highest-level owner means the entity that owns or controls an immediate owner of the offeror, or that
owns or controls one or more entities that control an immediate owner of the offeror. No entity owns
or exercises control of the highest level owner.
Immediate owner means an entity, other than the offeror, that has direct control of the offeror.
Indicators of control include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: ownership or
interlocking management, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and
42 of 62
equipment, and the common use of employees.
Inverted domestic corporation, means a foreign incorporated entity that meets the definition of
an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and
definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c).
Manufactured end product means any end product in product and service codes (PSCs) 1000-9999,
except-
(1) PSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;
(2) Product or Service Group (PSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;
(3) PSG 88, Live Animals;
(4) PSG 89, Subsistence;
(5) PSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;
(6) PSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;
(7) PSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;
(8) PSC 9610, Ores;
(9) PSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and
(10) PSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.
Place of manufacture means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or
otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to
the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not
the place of manufacture.
Predecessor means an entity that is replaced by a successor and includes any predecessors of
the predecessor.
Reasonable inquiry has the meaning provided in the clause 52.204-25, Prohibition
on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.
Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production
activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military
equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007
(Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the
person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of
2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-
(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of
southern Sudan;
(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in
the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the
requirement to be conducted under such authorization;
(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;
43 of 62
(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or
humanitarian organization;
(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or
(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-
Sensitive technology-
(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to
be used specifically-
(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or
(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and
(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does
not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3)of the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).
Service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concern means a small business
concern-
(1)
(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled
veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of
which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more
service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and
severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran; or
(2) A small business concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program in accordance with 13 CFR
part 128 (see subpart 19.14).
(3) Service-disabled veteran, as used in this definition, means a veteran as defined in 38 U.S.C.
101(2), with a disability that is service connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16), and who is
registered in the Beneficiary Identification and Records Locator Subsystem, or successor system
that is maintained by the Department of Veterans Affairs' Veterans Benefits Administration, as a
service-disabled veteran. Service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concern
eligible under the SDVOSB Program means an SDVOSB concern that-
(1) Effective January 1, 2024, is designated in the System for Award Management (SAM) as
certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) in accordance with 13 CFR 128.300; or
44 of 62
(2) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern in SAM and submitted a complete application
for certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023.
Service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) Program means a program that
authorizes contracting officers to limit competition, including award on a sole-source basis, to
SDVOSB concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program.
Small business concern-
(1) Means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not
dominant in its field of operation, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR
part 121 and size standards in this solicitation.
(2) Affiliates, as used in this definition, means business concerns, one of whom directly or
indirectly controls or has the power to control the others, or a third party or parties control or have
the power to control the others. In determining whether affiliation exists, consideration is given to
all appropriate factors including common ownership, common management, and contractual
relationships. SBA determines affiliation based on the factors set forth at 13 CFR 121.103.
Small disadvantaged business concern, consistent with 13 CFR 124.1001, means a small business
concern under the size standard applicable to the acquisition, that-
(1) Is at least 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned (as defined at 13 CFR 124.105) by-
(i) One or more socially disadvantaged (as defined at13 CFR 124.103) and economically
disadvantaged (as defined at 13 CFR 124.104) individuals who are citizens of the United
States; and
(ii) Each individual claiming economic disadvantage has a net worth not exceeding the
threshold at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2) after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth
at 13 CFR124.104(c)(2); and
(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled (as defined at 13.CFR
124.106) by individuals, who meet the criteria in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition.
Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-
(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or
(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation
Successor means an entity that has replaced a predecessor by acquiring the assets and carrying out
the affairs of the predecessor under a new name (often through acquisition or merger). The term
"successor" does not include new offices/divisions of the same company or a company that only
changes its name. The extent of the responsibility of the successor for the liabilities of
the predecessor may vary, depending on State law and specific circumstances.
45 of 62
Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-
(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned and controlled by one or more veterans (as defined
at 38 U.S.C. 101 or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the
stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more
veterans.
Women-owned business concern means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or
more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is
owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are
controlled by one or more women
Women-owned small business concern means a small business concern-
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, at least5 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and
(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance
with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and
unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are
controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States, and the concern is
certified by SBA or an approved third-party certifier in accordance with 13 CFR 127.300.
(b)
(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the Offeror in paragraph
(b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications in SAM.
(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically in SAM
accessed through http://www.sam.gov. After reviewing SAM information, the Offeror verifies by
submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically
at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial
Products and Commercial Services, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are
current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size
standard(s) applicable to the NAICS code(s) referenced for this solicitation), at the time
this offer is submitted and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for
paragraphs
[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (v) of this provision that
the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.
These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and
are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.
UI 02
Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in
an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.]
(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is
for supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas,
or when the contracting officer has applied part 19 in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii). Check all
that apply.
(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that-
(i) It
is,
is not a small business concern; or
(ii) It
is,
is not a small business joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13
CFR 121.103(h) and 13 CFR 125.8(a) and (b). [ The offeror shall enter the name and unique
entity identifier of each party to the joint venture:
.]
(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as
a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of
its offer that it
is,
is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
(3) SDVOSB concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small
business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision. The offeror represents that it
is,
is not
an SDVOSB concern.
(4) SDVOSB concern joint venture eligible under the SDVOSB Program. The offeror represents
that it
is,
is not an SDVOSB joint venture eligible under the SDVOSB Program that complies
with the requirements of 13 CFR 128.402. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as an
SDVOSB concern in paragraph (c)(3) of this provision.] [The offeror shall enter the name
and unique entity identifier of each party to the joint venture:
-
(5) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as
a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that
it
is,
is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
(6) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as
a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that
it
is,
is not a women-owned small business concern.
(7) WOSB joint venture eligible under the WOSB Program. The offeror represents that it
is,
is
not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR 127.506(a) through (c).
[ The offeror shall enter the name and unique entity identifier of each party to the joint
venture:
-
(8) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) joint
venture. The offeror represents that it
is,
is not a joint venture that complies with the
47 of 62
requirements of 13 CFR 127.506(a) through (c). [The offeror shall enter the name and unique
entity identifier of each party to the joint venture:
-
Note to paragraphs (c)(9) and (10): Complete paragraphs (c)(9) and (10) only if
this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
(9) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if
the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business
concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it is a women-owned
business concern.
(10) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small
business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of
manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50
percent of the contract price:
(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small
business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer,
that-
(i) It
is,
is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation,
as having been certified by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern in the Dynamic Small
Business Search and SAM, and will attempt to maintain an employment rate
of HUBZone residents of 35 percent of its employees during performance of a HUBZone
contract (see 13 CFR 126.200(e)(1)); and
(ii) It
is,
is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR
126.616(a) through (c). [The offeror shall enter the name and unique entity identifier of each
party to the joint venture:
.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in
the HUBZone joint venture shall provide representation of its HUBZone status.
(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order1 1246-
(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-
(i) It
has,
has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal
Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and
(ii) It
has,
has not filed all required compliance reports.
(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-
(i) It
has developed and has on file,
has not developed and does not have on file, at each
establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary
of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or
48 of 62
(ii) It
has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs
requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.
(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions
(31 http://uscode.house.gov/ U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
$150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief
that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or
attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer
or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in
connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying
Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this
contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL,
Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not
report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.
(f) Buy American Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American-Supplies, is included in this solicitation.)
(1)
(i) The Offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this
provision, is a domestic end product and that each domestic end product listed in paragraph
(f)(3) of this provision contains a critical component.
(ii) The Offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in
the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products. For those foreign end
products that do not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both,
the Offeror shall also indicate whether these foreign end products exceed 55 percent domestic
content, except for those that are COTS items. If the percentage of the domestic content is
unknown, select "no".
(iii) The Offeror shall separately list the line item numbers of domestic end products that
contain a critical component (see FAR 25.105).
(iv) The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "critical component,"
"domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined
in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Supplies."
(2) Foreign End Products:
LINE ITEM NO.
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
Exceeds 55% domestic content (yes/no)
(3) Domestic end products containing a critical component:
49 of 62
Line Item No.
[List as necessary]
(4) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of
FAR part 25.
(g)
(1) Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the
clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act, is included in
this solicitation.)
(i)
(A) The Offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)
or (iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that each domestic end
product listed in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this provision contains a critical component.
(B) The terms "Bahraini, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,"
"commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "critical component," "domestic end
product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free
Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are
defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-
Israeli Trade Act."
(ii) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end
products (other than Bahraini, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or
Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free
Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act."
Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahraini, Moroccan, Omani,
Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:
LINE ITEM NO.
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
(iii) The Offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed
in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled
"Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." The Offeror shall list as other
foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify
as domestic end products. For those foreign end products that do not consist wholly or
predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the Offeror shall also indicate whether
these foreign end products exceed 55 percent domestic content, except for those that are
COTS items. If the percentage of the domestic content is unknown, select "no".
50 of 62
Other Foreign End Products:
LINE ITEM NO.
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
Exceeds 55% domestic content (yes/no)
(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of
FAR part 25.
(2) Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II.
If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the
following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Israeli end products as defined in
the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade
Act":
Israeli End Products:
LINE ITEM NO.
(3) Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III.
If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following
paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(B) and (g)(1)(ii) for paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(B) and (g)(1)(ii) of the basic
provision:
(g)(1)(i)(B) The terms "Korean end product", "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS)
item," "critical component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free
Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product,"
and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free
Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act."
(g)(1)(ii) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Korean end products or Israeli end
products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free Trade
Agreements-Israeli Trade Act":
Korean End Products or Israeli End Products:
LINE ITEM NO.
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
51 of 62
(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this
provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of
this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements."
(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or
designated country end products.
Other End Products:
LINE ITEM NO.
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of
FAR part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will
evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the
restrictions of the Buy American statute. The Government will consider for award
only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting
Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for
such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation.
(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if
the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.)
The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its
principals-
(1)
Are,
are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or
declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency;
(2)
Have,
have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or
had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in
connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local
government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to
the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification
or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax
laws, or receiving stolen property;
(3)
Are,
are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a
Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2)
of this clause; and
(4)
Have,
have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any
delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds the threshold at 9.104-5(a)(2) for which
the liability remains unsatisfied.
52 of 62
(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been
assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial
challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally
determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.
(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has
failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not
delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.
(ii) Examples.
(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which
entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a
delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court
review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal
rights.
(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and
the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a
hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the
Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the
taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior
opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax
liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until
the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.
(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The
taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The
taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.
(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because
enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive
Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being
acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]
(1) Listed end products.
LISTED END PRODUCT
LISTED COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
53 of 62
(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of
origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or
(i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]
(i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision
that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that
product.
(ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that
was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product.
The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or
indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product
furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not
aware of any such use of child labor.
(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for
the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only,
the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to
provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-
(1)
In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end
products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered
end products manufactured outside the United States); or
(2)
Outside the United States.
(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Labor
Standards (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also
constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the
exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or
(k)(2) applies.]
(1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-
4(c)(1). The offeror
does
does not certify that-
(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than
Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of
an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal
business operations;
(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or
market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such
equipment; and
54 of 62
(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing
work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent
employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.
(2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror
does
does not
certify that-
(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental
customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt
subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business
operations;
(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established
catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii));
(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a
small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available
hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract
period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and
(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing
work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent
employees servicing commercial customers.
(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-
(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and
the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Labor Standards wage determination
to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and
(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to
execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact
the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.
(1) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) 26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable
if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM to be eligible for award.)
(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (1)(3) through (1)(5) of this
provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d),
reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations
issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts
arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the
resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the
55 of 62
TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's
TIN.
(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).
TIN:
.
TIN has been applied for.
TIN is not required because:
Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have
income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and
does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States;
Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;
Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
(4) Type of organization.
Sole proprietorship;
Partnership;
Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
Foreign government;
International organization per 26 CFR1.6049-4;
Other
.
(5) Common parent.
Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;
Name and TIN of common parent:
56 of 62
Name
.
TIN
.
(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that
the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.
(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations.
(1) Government agencies are not permitted to use appropriated (or otherwise made available)
funds for contracts with either an inverted domestic corporation, or a subsidiary of an inverted
domestic corporation, unless the exception at 9.108-2(b) applies or the requirement is waived in
accordance with the procedures at 9.108-4.
(2) Representation. The Offeror represents that-
(i) It
is,
is not an inverted domestic corporation; and
(ii) It
is,
is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.
(o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to
Iran.
(1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State
at CISADA106@state.gov.
(2) Representation and Certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as
provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-
(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export
any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or
controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran;
(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not
engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran
Sanctions Act; and
(iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not
knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds the threshold at FAR 25.703-2(a)(2) with
Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and
interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List
at https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/default.aspx)
(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not
apply if-
57 of 62
(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a
comparable agency provision); and
(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated
country end products.
(p) Ownership or Control of Offeror. (Applies in all solicitations when there is a requirement
to be registered in SAM or a requirement to have a unique entity identifier in the solicitation).
(1) The Offeror represents that it
has or
does not have an immediate owner. If the Offeror has
more than one immediate owner (such as a joint venture), then the Offeror shall respond to
paragraph (2) and if applicable, paragraph (3) of this provision for each participant in the joint
venture.
(2) If the Offeror indicates "has" in paragraph (p)(1) of this provision, enter the following
information:
Immediate owner CAGE code:
.
Immediate owner legal name:
.
(Do not use a "doing business as" name)
Is the immediate owner owned or controlled by another entity:
Yes or
No.
(3) If the Offeror indicates "yes" in paragraph (p)(2) of this provision, indicating that
the immediate owner is owned or controlled by another entity, then enter the following
information:
Highest-level owner CAGE code:
.
Highest-level owner legal name:
.
(Do not use a "doing business as" name)
(q) Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under
any Federal Law.
(1) As required by sections 744 and 745 of Division E of the Consolidated and Further Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235), and similar provisions, if contained in subsequent
appropriations acts, The Government will not enter into a contract with any corporation that-
(i) Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and
administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a
timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax
liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless an agency has
58 of 62
considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination
that suspension or debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government; or
(ii) Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding
24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless an agency has
considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this
action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
(2) The Offeror represents that-
(i) It is
is not
a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed,
for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and
that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority
responsible for collecting the tax liability; and
(ii) It is
is not
a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation under a
Federal law within the preceding 24 months.
(r) Predecessor of Offeror. (Applies in all solicitations that include the provision at 52.204-16,
Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting.)
(1) The Offeror represents that it
is or
is not a successor to a predecessor that held a Federal
contract or grant within the last three years.
(2) If the Offeror has indicated "is" in paragraph (r)(1) of this provision, enter the following
information for all predecessors that held a Federal contract or grant within the last three years (if
more than one predecessor, list in reverse chronological order):
Predecessor CAGE code: (or mark "Unknown").
Predecessor legal name:
.
(Do not use a "doing business as" name).
(s) [Reserved].
(t) Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals. Applies in
all solicitations that require offerors to register in SAM (12.301(d)(1)).
(1) This representation shall be completed if the Offeror received $7.5 million or more in contract
awards in the prior Federal fiscal year. The representation is optional if the Offeror received less
than $7.5 million in Federal contract awards in the prior Federal fiscal year.
(2) Representation. [Offeror to check applicable block(s) in paragraph (t)(2)(i) and (ii)].
(i) The Offeror (itself or through its immediate owner or highest-level
59 of 62
owner)
does,
does not publicly disclose greenhouse gas emissions, i.e., makes
available on a publicly accessible website the results of a greenhouse gas inventory,
performed in accordance with an accounting standard with publicly available and
consistently applied criteria, such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard.
(ii) The Offeror (itself or through its immediate owner or highest-level
owner)
does,
does not publicly disclose a quantitative greenhouse gas emissions
reduction goal, i.e., make available on a publicly accessible website a target to reduce
absolute emissions or emissions intensity by a specific quantity or percentage.
(iii) A publicly accessible website includes the Offeror's own website or a recognized,
third-party greenhouse gas emissions reporting program.
(3) If the Offeror checked "does" in paragraphs (t)(2)(i) or (t)(2)(ii) of this provision, respectively,
the Offeror shall provide the publicly accessible website(s) where greenhouse gas emissions
and/or reduction goals are reported:
.
(u)
(1) In accordance with section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in
subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions), Government agencies
are not permitted to use appropriated (or otherwise made available) funds for contracts with an
entity that requires employees or subcontractors of such entity seeking to report waste, fraud, or
abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting
such employees or subcontractors from lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a
designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency
authorized to receive such information.
(2) The prohibition in paragraph (u)(1) of this provision does not contravene requirements
applicable to Standard Form 312 (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414
(Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form issued by a
Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified information.
(3) Representation. By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it will not require its
employees or subcontractors to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or
statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully
reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a Government contract to a
designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency
authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of the Inspector General).
(v) Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation. Section 889(a)(1)(A)
and section 889 (a)(1)(B) of Public Law 115-232.
(1) The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award Management
(SAM) (https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal awards for "covered
telecommunications equipment or services".
60 of 62
(2) The Offeror represents that-
(i) It
does,
does not provide covered telecommunications equipment or services as a part
of its offered products or services to the Government in the performance of any contract,
subcontract, or other contractual instrument.
(ii) After conducting a reasonable inquiry for purposes of this representation, that
it
does,
does not use covered telecommunications equipment or services, or any
equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services.
End of provision
32.
FAR 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)
Protests, as defined in FAR section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed
directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability
Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer at the address below:
U.S. Department of Transportation/OST Office of Senior
Procurement Executive
Attn: Robin Golden, Contracting Officer
1200 New Jersey Avenue
W83-482, Southeast Washington,
DC 20590
Acknowledgement of receipt is confirmed by obtaining a written and dated document from Robin
Gates, Contracting Officer.
[End of RFP]
Attachment:
Non-Disclosure Agreement
61 of 62
Attachment 1 - Non-Disclosure Form
CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT
It is understood that as part of my official duties under the DOT Office of Aviation
and Analysis and Schedule Solution Web-Application contract, I may come in
contact with Government procurement sensitive information or proprietary
business information from other contractors (e.g., cost data). I, as an official
Government contractor employee, certify that I will not disclose, publish, divulge,
release, or make known, in any manner or to any extent, to any individual other
than an appropriate or authorized Government employee, the content of any
sensitive information provided during the course of my employment. I understand
that for the purpose of this agreement, sensitive information is to include
procurement data, contract information, plans, strategies or other information not
of a publicly released and available nature through appropriate sources.
I further certify that I will use proprietary business information only for official
purposes in the performance of the DOT Aviation and Analysis and Schedule
Solution Web-Application contract and will disclose such information only to those
individuals who have a specific need to know in performance of official
Government duties. I specifically will not disclose any such information to
employees of my company or any other contractor employees or anyone who have
not signed an applicable non-disclosure agreement. I will take all reasonable
precautions to protect and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and use of such
information.
I hereby certify that I have read the non-disclosure agreement described above and
I am familiar with the directives and policies governing the disclosure of sensitive
information. I will fully and completely observe these directives and will not
disclose such information to any unauthorized person, or use any information
obtained for private use or gain at any time.
NAME (Please Print)
SIGNATURE
DATE
ORGANIZATION/AFFILIATION
62 of 62
=== 02_Amend_001.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002 - MOD 1
Amend 00001 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
02/10/2026
Description:
The purpose of this Amendment is to correct the date for when questions are due. Questions are
due on Tuesday, February 10, 2026, at noon EST not Wednesday February 11, 2026.
=== 03_Amend_002.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002 -
Amend 00002 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
02/12/2026
Description:
This Amendment extends the question submission deadline to 9:00 AM EST on February 13,
2026, due to an issue with the RFP attachment in SAM.gov. The RFP has been reuploaded. No
additional questions will be accepted after this deadline.
=== 04_Amend_003.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002 -
Amend 00003 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
02/13/2026
Description:
This Amendment is to correct the proposal submission due date. Proposals are due on Friday,
March 27, 2026, at 10:00AM EST not Thursday.
=== 05_Amend_004.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002 -
Amend 00004 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
02/20/2026
Description:
The purpose of this amendment is to correct post answers to questions.
=== 06_Amend_005.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002 -
Amend 00005 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
02/20/2026
Description:
The purpose of this amendment is to correct typo on Amendment 0004. Amendment 0004 is to
post answers to questions. No correction was made. Please disregard the word correct on
Amend 00004. That was a typo. Thank you.
=== 07_Amend_006.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002 -
Amend 00006 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
03/2/2026
Description:
The purpose of this amendment is to post additional questions and answers that were received on
Friday, February 13, 2026, that were inadvertently not included on the Final Q&A Excel
Spreadsheet. All questions that the Government will entertain are now posted.
=== 08_Amend_007.pdf ===
RFP 693JK426R600002
Amend 00007 - Airline Analysis and Scheduling Solution Application
Date of modification:
03/10/2026
Description:
The purpose of this amendment is as follows:
1. In addition, the proposal due date is hereby changed from March 27, 2026, to Monday,
March 30, 2026, at 10am EST.
2. In addition, the page requirement in section Volume I - Technical
Capacity/Approach/Frequency of Data Updates/Comprehensiveness of Historical Data is
increased from 60 pages to a total of 75 pages (Excluding Resumes and Table of
Content and Descriptions).
3. Incorporate a Modular Procurement Framework for AI and Data Integration into the
solicitation. The following sections of the Statement of Work (SOW) and Instructions to
Offerors are hereby amended to address these new requirements. See Below:
1. MODIFICATION TO SECTION 1: CONTRACT PRICING & VOLUME II (PRICE) To
allow the DOT to evaluate modular procurement options where the data provider and
AI provider function as separate entities, the Pricing Schedule is amended.
Modular Pricing Requirement: Offerors should provide a standalone "Price and
product subscription of just providing the data," decoupled from the overarching
software or AI applications. Offerors should structure their Volume II: Cost/Price
proposal to clearly separate the costs of the raw data provision from the interface and
AI tools when applicable.
2.
MODIFICATION TO SECTION "DESCRIPTION/TECHNICAL APPROACH" &
PART I (TECHNICAL CAPACITY) The Technical Approach requirements are
expanded to include specific responses regarding data provenance, methodology,
Artificial Intelligence (AI) integration, and data accuracy. Offerors must provide
detailed responses to the following:
Data Sources and Methodology: Offerors must provide a comprehensive explanation
of the specific sources used to acquire all required data elements, including global
origination and destination (OD) data, fare data, global schedule data, fleet
information, and advanced booking data. Furthermore, offerors must detail the exact
methodologies employed to collect, process, aggregate, and validate this data from
these sources to ensure it meets the Department's requirements for
comprehensiveness and historical availability dating back to at least 2005.
AI Integration Plans: Offerors must provide a detailed clarification of their plans to
incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) into the proposed applications, specifically
defining the precise role AI will play within the system. This explanation must delineate
how AI technologies will be integrated into both the back-end infrastructure and the
front-end User Interface/User Experience (UI/UX). Furthermore, offerors must
describe the mechanisms in place for system transparency, detailing how end-users
will be able to verify that the Al has accurately interpreted their requests and correctly
processed the underlying data.
Guardrails and Models: For AI included offers, offerors must describe in detail how
they will ensure appropriate guardrails (content filters, anti-prompt injection defense,
bias mitigation, grounding and fact-checking, and operational/action constraints) and
manage the AI models utilized within their solution to prevent hallucinated or
compromised analysis.
AI Testing: Offerors must specifically describe the methodology for how testing of an AI
tool will be done prior to and during deployment.
Accuracy Assurance: Offerors must detail the exact mechanisms and protocols used
to ensure the overall accuracy of the data and any Al-generated outputs or business
intelligence reports.
3.
MODIFICATION TO "USER REQUIREMENTS" & PART III (WEB-BASED
APPLICATION) The requirements surrounding the user interface (UI) are expanded to ensure
clarity on technical capabilities.
Interface Functionality: Offerors must comprehensively describe the functionality and
capability of the interface, specifically demonstrating how the proposed UI will support DOT
analysts in executing custom reports, advanced booking evaluations, and market
queries. Where an offeror proposes to provide a UI customized to DOT needs involving an
initial startup round of requirements gathering with DOT staff and/or ongoing contract lifecycle
enhancements, please provide details on how the process would work and how enhancement
scope will be determined.
=== 09_Additional_Questions.pdf ===
Amendment 00006
Document, Section and Page No.
Description & Question
General
Is this solicitation a recompete of an existing contract?
If so, could you please confirm the incumbent
contractor(s)? Answer: This is a recompete. The
Incumbent is Sabre
General
What is the current or historical contract value
associated with this work? Answer: Approx $640K+
General
Will the Statement of Work (SOW) remain unchanged
from the current contract, or have there been any
updates or revisions? Answer: No revisions were made
to the SOW
General
Could you please provide the current or prior contract
number associated with this requirement? Answer:
693JK421C600002
General
How has the incumbent performed on the current
contract, particularly with regard to meeting
performance objectives, deliverables, and timelines?
The contract has not expired. Answer: A final CPARS
rating will occur after the contract ends.
General
Are the cover page and table of contents excluded from
the overall page count limit? Answer: yes
Demonstration Requirements
What specific functional scenarios or use cases should
the demonstration address (e.g., ATI analysis, merger
review, route selection case study)? Answer:
See row 18 of Excel spreadsheet regarding scenarios.
Demonstration Scoring
Will the demonstration be formally scored? If so, can
DOT provide the evaluation rubric or key criteria that
will determine demo scoring?
Answer: See row 18 of Excel spreadsheet regarding
scenarios for what demo shall include. Also, refer to
SOW.
Demonstration Format
Is there a preferred duration, format, or agenda structure
for the demonstration (e.g., live query walkthrough,
scripted use case, dashboard review)? Answer: No
Incumbent Solution
Is the incumbent providing a commercially available
platform, a customized solution, or a hybrid data
aggregation model? Answer: Commercially available
Current Challenges
What limitations or gaps in the incumbent solution is
DOT seeking to address through this procurement?
Answer: Access to Fleet data, other than that nothing
new in particular but interested in any new offerings/
capabilities for ad-hoc analyses
User Base
The SOW specifies support for a minimum of 10 users.
Is there potential for expansion beyond 10 users during
Document, Section and Page No.
Description & Question
the contract term? Answer: Possibly, at this time we
only anticipate 10 users
Data Licensing Scope
Should pricing assume enterprise-wide access within
OAA, or strictly limited named-user licensing (10
users)? Answer: That would be up to the Offeror on
how they want to propose.
Data Coverage
Are there specific geographic regions or carriers of
heightened analytical importance (e.g., EU, Middle
East, Asia-Pacific)?
Answer: Global
Historical Data
The SOW requires data back to at least 2005. Does
DOT require continuous historical coverage with no
data gaps? Answer: See row 20 of Excel spreadsheet
regarding historical data.
Advanced Booking Data
Can DOT clarify the expected booking window horizon
(e.g., 30, 60, 90+ days forward visibility)? Answer: As
much as possible.
Data Sources
Is DOT expecting data derived directly from GDS
providers, airlines, third-party aggregators, or any
combination thereof? Answer: Refer to SOW
Update Frequency
Is monthly update cadence for demand and fare data
considered acceptable, or is more frequent refresh
preferred? Answer: Prefer as much as possible
Integration
Does DOT require API access or data export capability
for integration with internal analytical tools? Answer:
Export capability for the purpose of ingestion into other
tools, API may not be necessary for this but some
facility for non-programmers to export data.
Security Requirements
Are there specific cybersecurity compliance
requirements (e.g., FedRAMP, FISMA Moderate)
applicable to this web-based solution?
Answer: See row 54 of Excel spreadsheet.
Hosting Requirements
Must the solution be hosted in a U.S.-based data
environment, or are commercial cloud hosting
environments acceptable? Answer:
See row 54 of Excel spreadsheet.
Data Export
Is bulk data export (CSV/API) required, or is analytical
access via UI sufficient? Answer: Bulk export is
required
Custom Reporting
What level of customization is expected for reporting
(e.g., custom dashboards, saved queries, automated
recurring reports)? Answer: As much as possible
Performance Metrics
Are there system performance SLAs expected (e.g.,
query response time, uptime percentage)? Answer:
See row 51 of Excel spreadsheet.
Document, Section and Page No.
Description & Question
Training Format
If virtual training is conducted, must it be live
instructor-led, or would recorded modules
supplemented by Q&A be acceptable? Answer: Highest
level of capability available.
Option Year Pricing
Should option year pricing assume fixed escalation,
CPI-based adjustment, or flat rate pricing across five
years? Answer:
Modest price escalation for option years may be
included.
Period of Transition
Will there be a transition period from the incumbent to
the new contractor prior to May 1, 2026? Answer: Yes
Data Migration
Is historical data migration from the incumbent system
expected as part of transition? Answer: No
Demonstration Timing
If scheduling conflicts arise, would DOT consider
extending the March 2, 2026 demo scheduling
deadline? Answer: At this time, no.
Proposal Due Date
Would DOT consider an extension to the March 27,
2026 proposal submission deadline to allow adequate
preparation following demos? Answer: At this time the
government is not considering an extension of the
proposal deadline.
Data Accuracy Threshold
Are there minimum acceptable thresholds for data
accuracy, coverage completeness, or validation
standards? Answer: Industry standard thresholds and
best practice.
Innovation
Is DOT open to AI-assisted analytics, predictive
modeling, or enhanced visualization capabilities beyond
the minimum SOW requirements? Answer: yes
Award Timing
What is the anticipated award decision date following
proposal submission? Answer: April 1, 2026
Multiple Awards
Does DOT anticipate a single award or multiple awards
under this procurement? Answer: Single Award