# DA01--Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical  Process Optimization - New Requirement

Solicitation: 36C10B26Q0210
Type: Sources Sought
NAICS: 541512
Opp ID: af66e184-587e-4bad-968d-55fe90ad5a78



===== SOURCE FILE 1: 9961882a-07e0-4f69-a9f8-1b72adcff084.txt =====



SUBJECT*

VA-26-00042471 - Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Process Optimization  



GENERAL INFORMATION

CONTRACTING OFFICE’S ZIP CODE*

07724

SOLICITATION NUMBER*

36C10B26Q0210

BASE NOTICE TYPE



RESPONSE DATE/TIME/ZONE

03-02-2026 10:00 EASTERN TIME, NEW YORK, USA

ARCHIVE

99 DAYS AFTER THE RESPONSE DATE

RECOVERY ACT FUNDS

N

SET-ASIDE



PRODUCT SERVICE CODE*

DA01

NAICS CODE*

541512

CONTRACTING OFFICE ADDRESS

Department of Veterans Affairs 

Technology Acquisition Center 

 

23 Christopher Way

Eatontown NJ  07724 



POINT OF CONTACT*



 













PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

ADDRESS

















 

POSTAL CODE



COUNTRY





ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

AGENCY’S URL



URL DESCRIPTION



AGENCY CONTACT’S EMAIL ADDRESS



EMAIL DESCRIPTION





DESCRIPTION

See Attached




===== SOURCE FILE 2: ce7a06fc-d745-4feb-819b-0b096885a470.txt =====



SUBJECT*

Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Process Optimization - New Requirement  







GENERAL INFORMATION

CONTRACTING OFFICE’S ZIP CODE*

07724

SOLICITATION NUMBER*

36C10B26Q0210

BASE NOTICE TYPE



RESPONSE DATE/TIME/ZONE

04-07-2026 16:00 EASTERN TIME, NEW YORK, USA

ARCHIVE

60 DAYS AFTER THE RESPONSE DATE

RECOVERY ACT FUNDS

N

SET-ASIDE



PRODUCT SERVICE CODE*

DA01

NAICS CODE*

541512

CONTRACTING OFFICE ADDRESS

Department of Veterans Affairs 

Technology Acquisition Center 

 

23 Christopher Way

Eatontown NJ  07724 



POINT OF CONTACT*

 













PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

ADDRESS

















 

POSTAL CODE



COUNTRY





ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

AGENCY’S URL



URL DESCRIPTION



AGENCY CONTACT’S EMAIL ADDRESS



EMAIL DESCRIPTION





DESCRIPTION

Please see that attached RFI Questions and Answers for VA-26-00042471 entitled, “Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Process Optimization”





















































DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

Office of Information & Technology

Office of Finance – Revenue Operations



VA-26-00042471

Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Process Optimization



RFI Questions & Answers

April 7, 2026





Question #

Relevant Section

Questions

Governments Response

1

Section 5.2, page 26 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Is it the government's intention to execute a justification for an exception to fair opportunity, as happened under VA-22-00054941, a sole source Firm-Fixed-Price Task Order (TO) issued under the Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology Next Generation (T4NG) Contract Number VA118-16-D-1006 with Tria?

The Government's  intent of this RFI is to complete Market Research, identify capable vendors, and explore alternative solutions to develop an Acquisition Strategy based on the responses received. 









2

Section 5.2, page 26 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Can the government please clarify if the scope of this procurement covers renewal of MD Clarity Payer Compliance Tool (PCT) software licenses, Huron Healthcare (Huron) Workflow Management Tool (WFT) software licenses, and associated technical and support services for the Office of Finance (OF) - Revenue Operations (RO) healthcare revenue business tools?

The renewal of any software licenses and associated technical support services are dependent on the offeror’s proposed solution and approach to meeting all the Government’s requirements.    

3

Section 5.2, page 26, 28, 29, 31 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Can the government please clarify if the scope of this procurement still includes scenario modeling of insurance carrier agreements with automatic calculation of expected allowed amounts, and provides reports displaying agreements in various views and search capabilities, to include adjustment codes, bill type, and estimated allowance at the bill, medical center, Veterans Integrated Services Network, and CPAC level? If so, then what tool is planned for this requirement?

Yes, please refer to PWS section 5.2. The primary goal of the RFI process is to identify the most effective strategy to support the Revenue mission. Revenue Operations does not require a specific tool.

4

Section 5.2, page 26, 28, 29, 31 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Can the government please clarify the WFT core components? Can the government confirm the main functions, namely: - enables effective monitoring of the front-end process, including verification of third-party insurance and related authorization or pre-certification activities;- enables effective third-party claim monitoring, follow-up and account resolution processes; - enables communication regarding resolution of specific encounters across all areas of the CPAC revenue cycle; - enables effective monitoring, communication and resolution of various first party processes, including claims matching, bankruptcies, repayment plans, aged debt, etc., reducing the potential adverse Veteran first party debt impact? Can the government confirm if any other enablement is required, and provide the name of the tool planned to support these enablements?

The Government has listed the requirements in the PWS.  Please refer to PWS, section 5.2. 



Revenue Operations do not require a specific tool.











5

Section 5.2, page 26, 28, 29, 31 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Can the government please clarify if only an exclusive, legally binding, teaming 

arrangement with Huron and MD Clarity PCT can provide the aforementioned software and services in a manner that will meet the requirements for the VA? Since Huron WFT and the MD Clarity PCT are both proprietary tools that are currently integrated in VA systems and processes; is it the government's intent to continue to use these tools?

The Government’s intent is to utilize the best possible tool(s) to fulfil the VA’s need. This RFI is being used to determine the best approach to support the Revenue Operations team. 

6

Section 5.2, page 26, 28, 29, 31 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Will the government consider alternate technologies with COTS/SaaS integrated LC/NC RO case management solutions, such as those based on Pega? Will the government accept AoA recommendations from technical experts who have reviewed alternative software solutions including those from Experian Health, Thrive, and SSI Healthcare Revenue Cycle Solutions?

Yes, the Government will consider differing avenues that best support alternative technologies and strategies from a cost, capability, and Veteran impact perspective.

7

Section 5.2, page 25, 26, 28, 29, 31 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Can the government please clarify the status of efforts and development of health RPA enhancements to ROWTE, stipulated under DMND0013072 and DMND0012317, related to RPA configurations and automations to enhance billing operations and efficiency. Have the requirements to redirect over 333,473 hours and up to 52 FTEs annually to other revenue priorities been met, enhancing productivity and reducing errors? How many RPA agents are deployed in production and what is their specific purpose?

No, the answers to these questions will not be provided.

8

Section 5.2, page 25, 26, 28, 29, 31 of 88, revenue operations workflow functionality and cloud computing

Can the government please clarify if this procurement is planned to be solicited under T4NG? Historically, VA11816F10150005, was solicited as FAR 16.505(b)1 Fair Opportunity, later, FAR 16.505(b)2ii One Source was used for procurements T4NG-0476 and T4NG-0648. What vehicle will be used for this procurement, and will it be fair and open?

The ordering period for T4NG has ended and will not be used for this acquisition.  The Government is conducting market research to determine the best acquisition strategy to include any other potential contract vehicles.






===== SOURCE FILE 3: d3e9d215-8339-4ec5-adfe-ecb094f4a8c3.txt =====



SUBJECT*

VA-26-00042471 - Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Process Optimization  



GENERAL INFORMATION

CONTRACTING OFFICE’S ZIP CODE*

07724

SOLICITATION NUMBER*

36C10B26Q0210

RESPONSE DATE/TIME/ZONE

02-27-2026 10:00 EASTERN TIME, NEW YORK, USA

ARCHIVE

99 DAYS AFTER THE RESPONSE DATE

RECOVERY ACT FUNDS

N

SET-ASIDE



PRODUCT SERVICE CODE*

DA01

NAICS CODE*

541512

CONTRACTING OFFICE ADDRESS

Department of Veterans Affairs 

Technology Acquisition Center 

 

23 Christopher Way

Eatontown NJ  07724 



POINT OF CONTACT*





 













PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

ADDRESS

















 

POSTAL CODE



COUNTRY





ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

AGENCY’S URL



URL DESCRIPTION



AGENCY CONTACT’S EMAIL ADDRESS



EMAIL DESCRIPTION





DESCRIPTION

See Attached

Request for Information 

Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Consulting

VA-26-00042471



Introduction



This Request for Information (RFI) is for planning purposes only and shall not be considered an Invitation for Bid, Request for Task Execution Plan, Request for Quotation or a Request for Proposal.  Additionally, there is no obligation on the part of the Government to acquire any products or services described in this RFI.  Your response to this RFI will be treated only as information for the Government to consider.  You will not be entitled to payment for direct or indirect costs that you incur in responding to this RFI.  This request does not constitute a solicitation for proposals or the authority to enter into negotiations to award a contract.  No funds have been authorized, appropriated or received for this effort.  Interested parties are responsible for adequately marking proprietary, restricted or competition sensitive information contained in their response.  The Government does not intend to pay for the information submitted in response to this RFI.



The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) for this requirement is 541512 with a size standard of $34 million.  



2. Submittal Information:



All responsible sources may submit a response in accordance with the below information.  



There is a page limitation for this RFI of 15 pages. The Government will not review any other information or attachments included, that are in excess of the 15-page limit. NO MARKETING MATERIALS ARE ALLOWED AS PART OF THIS RFI.  Generic capability statements will not be accepted or reviewed.  Your response must address capabilities specific to the services required in the attached PWS and must include the following:



Interested Vendors shall at a minimum, provide the following information in the initial paragraph of the submission:



Name of Company

Address

Point of Contact

Phone Number

Fax Number

Email address

Company Business Size and Status



For VOSB and SDVOSBs, proof of SBA certification. SDVOSB/VOSB vendors that have not been certified by SBA should not respond to this notice.	



NAICS code(s)

Socioeconomic data

Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) Number

Existing Contractual Vehicles (GWAC, FSS, or MAC)



Provide a summary of your ability to meet the requirements contained within the draft PWS for the following areas:



Provide a summary of your technical capability to meet PWS paragraphs 5.2- Revenue Operations Workflow Functionality and Cloud Computing, 5.3- Claims Scoring, Reporting, and Payment Efficacy, and 5.4- Managerial and Technical Support.  Your response shall include all software tools that will be leveraged in order to fulfill the PWS requirements.



If you were to submit a proposal, would your company be the sole provider of the complete scope of services, or is your company planning to provide any of the services sought in partnership with other entities? If it will be in partnership with another entity (or entities), identify the scope of services that will be provided by subcontractors or partners, the names of anticipated partners and the percentage(s) of the service(s) that will be provided by each of the subcontractor(s) or partner(s).Provide an overview of your company including primary services that you provide, size of the company, year established etc. 



Describe your relevant experience in providing a similar scope of services to Government agencies or commercial organizations of similar scope, size and complexity to the VA. Include the agency name, project type, scope, length, and contract number (if applicable). Your response shall address the following areas:





Describe any past or present cloud migration and implementation activities your company has managed or supported across a business enterprise. Please explain in detail the services provided in a cloud-based environment to include sustainment services for a customer base similar in size to Revenue Operations and its seven CPACs.



Please explain your experience executing revenue centric workflow management services. Workflow that generates items that are both automated and set for manual review and subsequently distributed to staff throughout a large enterprise. 



Please provide your past or present approach to providing robotic process automation services that support automation assistance to approved work processes that reduced manual staff intervention to increase business process efficiencies.



Please provide your past or present experience in providing claims scoring, reporting and payment efficacy for a large healthcare entity.



Provide your experience with building, updating and maintaining compliant modeling of insurance carrier agreements comparing actual reimbursement to expected payments while quantifying payment variances based on reimbursement methodology.



Please provide your approach to past or present enterprise-wide operational process and staffing improvement support for a large organization in support of tactical and strategic goals/metrics.



Provide your companies experience supporting a national level program in the following:



Developing, optimizing, maintaining  and assisting in the delivery of operational training and policy development, refinement.

Electronic HealthCare Record Management (EHRM) industry best practice requirements development, implementation and “go live” readiness.

Change management support on large scale initiatives and operational activities.

HIPAA / X12, NCPDP EDI subject matter expertise in a Healthcare Revenue cycle environment.

The development of executive level operations reports and business case products on both a regular and as needed (ad hoc) basis. These briefings often require a comparison of private sector Revenue Operations’ best practices, business standards or metrics.  These executive level documents and briefings may be extended to VA under-secretary, Legislative and Office of the Inspector General (IG) personnel.



For SDVOSB/VOSB vendors: Your company’s intent and ability to meet the set aside requirement in accordance with VAAR 852.219-73 (JAN 2023) (DEVIATION) VA Notice of Total Set-Aside For Certified SDVOSBs and 13 CFR §125.6, which states the contractor will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to the prime for contract performance to firms that are not certified SDVOSBs listed in the SBA certification database (excluding direct costs to the extent they are not the principal purpose of the acquisition and the SDVOSB/VOSB does not provide the service, such as airline travel, cloud computing services, or mass media purchases). When a contract includes both services and supplies, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the service portion of the contract. 



Your response shall include information as to available personnel and financial resources; full names of proposed team members and the PWS requirements planned to be subcontracted to them, which must include the prime planned percentage or the names of the potential team members that may be used to fulfill the set aside requirement. 



Has the draft PWS provided sufficient detail to describe the technical requirements that encompass the software development and production operations support services to be performed under this effort. 



______ YES ______ NO (if No, answer question f)



If “NO”, please provide your technical comments/recommendations on elements of the draft PWS that may contribute to a more accurate proposal submission and efficient, cost effective effort.

 

Responses are due no later than 10:00am EST on February 27, 2026 via email to Gary Throckmorton, Contract Specialist at Gary.Throckmorton@va.gov and Christopher Minetti, Contracting Officer at Christopher.Minetti@va.gov.  Please note “RFI - Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Consulting” in the subject line of your response.  Mark your response as “Proprietary Information” if the information is considered business sensitive.  The email file size shall not exceed 5 MB.



























PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)

DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

Office of Information & Technology

Office of Finance – Revenue Operations



Revenue Operations Workflow, Payer Compliance and Technical Process Optimization



Date: February 20, 2026

VA-26-00042471

PWS Version: 1.0



Contents

1.0	BACKGROUND	11

2.0	APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS	12

3.0	SCOPE OF WORK	16

4.0	PERFORMANCE DETAILS	17

4.1	PERFORMANCE PERIOD	17

4.2	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE	17

4.3	TRAVEL	17

5.0	SPECIFIC TASKS AND DELIVERABLES	18

5.1	PROJECT MANAGEMENT	18

5.1.1	CONTRACTOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN	18

5.1.2	REPORTING REQUIREMENTS	18

5.1.3	SECURITY AND PRIVACY	19

5.1.4	RESOURCES	20

5.1.5	PRODUCT MANAGEMENT DEVSECOPS ROLES	21

5.1.6	REPORTING REQUIREMENTS	21

5.1.7	DEVSECOPS TOOLS	23

5.1.8	CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT	23

5.2	REVENUE OPERATIONS WORKFLOW FUNCTIONALITY AND CLOUD COMPUTING	25

5.2.1	MAINTENANCE SUPPORT	30

5.3	CLAIMS SCORING, REPORTING AND PAYMENT EFFICACY	31

5.3.1	REVENUE OPERATIONS EHRM TRANSITION SUPPORT  (PAYER COMPLIANCE)	33

5.3.2	PAYER COMPLIANCE	33

5.3.3	MAINTENANCE SUPPORT	37

5.4	MANAGERIAL AND TECHNICAL CONSULTING SUPPORT	37

5.4.1	PROCESS MANAGEMENT	37

5.4.2	ANNUAL CPAC STAFFING MODEL	40

5.4.3	RO EXECUTIVE OPERATIONS REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS	40

5.4.4	EHRM PROGRAM SUPPORT	40

5.4.5	THIRD PARTY ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE (EDI) TECHNICAL AND PRODUCT SUPPORT	42

5.5	OPTION PERIOD ONE	42

5.6	OPTION PERIOD TWO	42

5.7	OPTION PERIOD THREE	42

5.8	OPTIONAL TASK ONE - WORKFLOW TOOL ENHANCEMENTS	43

5.9	OPTIONAL TASK TWO - PAYER COMPLIANCE MODELING	45

5.10	OPTIONAL TASK THREE - PAYER COMPLIANCE TOOLS SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT OR CONFIGURATION	46

5.11	OPTIONAL TASK FOUR - REVENUE STUDIES, ASSESSMENTS AND ANALYSIS	49

5.12	OPTIONAL TASK FIVE – CHANGE MANAGEMENT PROCESS, TECHNIQUES, AND CONTROL SERVICES	50

6.0	GENERAL REQUIREMENTS	51

6.1	ENTERPRISE AND IT FRAMEWORK	51

6.1.1	VA TECHNICAL REFERENCE MODEL	51

6.1.2	ZERO TRUST – VA CRITICAL SECURITY CONTROLS	51

6.1.3	FEDERAL IDENTITY, CREDENTIAL, AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT (FICAM)	52

6.1.4	INTERNET PROTOCOL VERSION 6 (IPv6)	53

6.1.5	TRUSTED INTERNET CONNECTION (TIC)	53

6.1.6	STANDARD COMPUTER CONFIGURATION	54

6.1.7	VETERAN FOCUSED INTEGRATION PROCESS (VIP) AND PRODUCT LINE MANAGEMENT (PLM)	54

6.1.8	PROCESS ASSET LIBRARY (PAL)	55

6.1.9	AUTHORITATIVE DATA SOURCES	55

6.1.10	SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER (SSN) REDUCTION	56

6.1.11	SOFTWARE AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS	56

6.2	SECURITY AND PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS	56

6.2.1	POSITION/TASK RISK DESIGNATION LEVEL(S)	57

6.2.2	CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS	58

6.3	METHOD AND DISTRIBUTION OF DELIVERABLES	60

6.4	PERFORMANCE METRICS	60

6.5	FACILITY/RESOURCE PROVISIONS	61

6.6	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY	62

6.7	TECHNICAL KICKOFF MEETING	62

ADDENDUM A – ADDITIONAL VA REQUIREMENTS, CONSOLIDATED	63

ADDENDUM B – VA INFORMATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY/ PRIVACY LANGUAGE	69





BACKGROUND

The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Health Administration (VHA), is one of the world’s largest health care delivery organizations. The Revenue Operations (RO) team is seeking ongoing healthcare revenue industry modeled best practice management consulting services and healthcare revenue operations business information technology tools to sustain, transform and continuously improve revenue cycle activities within the Office of Finance (OF). Revenue Operations (RO) and the seven (7) regionally aligned Consolidated Patient Account Centers (CPACs) support a vast healthcare enterprise in the service of our Nation’s Veterans. The goal of RO is to support the field in the management of the revenue cycle. As part of that effort, RO provides a variety of program services including the following: payer relations, metric-based quality / policy operational analyses, rate development, eBusiness EDI solutions and best practice modeling with a focus on process standardization to enhance revenues.



The Consolidated Patient Account Center (CPAC) uses standardized methods, tools, and processes to improve efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability in revenue operations. CPAC’s state-of-the-art business processes ensure that VA collects revenue from private health insurance carriers for nonservice-connected care provided to insured Veterans. These funds go back to the VA Medical Centers (VAMCs) to provide health care services to our Veterans. There are seven regional CPACs located around the country that provide revenue cycle management to all the  Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISNs) and their associated VAMCs. CPACs perform back-end revenue cycle processes while the VAMCs maintain ownership of key Veteran-facing revenue functions.

Transformation from the VA current state legacy system to the Oracle Health Electronic Health Record (OH EHRM) and its related health and revenue information technology tools is a critical endeavor for Revenue Operations. The RO team requires support to maintain and improve its best practice private sector revenue cycle performance while it transforms, as necessary, to the Oracle Health revenue technology tools. During preparation, deployment and stabilization of OH EHRM, RO seeks to continue its utilization of healthcare revenue business best practices and healthcare revenue business tools which provide work drivers to track and prioritize key revenue cycle activities, provide improved revenue collection services that focus on integral cash generation, improved payer management, standardization of processes, training and development of staff, along with extensive use of metrics and analytics to measure and validate performance.



These efforts are in response to Public Law 110-387, Section 406, which requires Revenue Operations and the CPACs to carry out the following functions: (1) Reengineer and integrate all business processes of the revenue cycle of the Department; (2) Standardize and coordinate all activities of the Department related to the revenue cycle for all health care services furnished to Veterans for nonservice-connected medical conditions; (3) Apply commercial industry standards for measures of access, timeliness, and performance metrics with respect to revenue enhancement of the Department; and (4) Apply other requirements with respect to such revenue cycle improvement as the Secretary may specify.  In meeting these goals, VA VHA strives to provide high quality, effective, and efficient Information Technology (IT) services to those responsible for providing care to the Veterans at the point-of-care as well as throughout all the points of the Veterans’ health care in an effective, timely and compassionate manner.  VA depends on Information Management/Information Technology (IM/IT) systems to meet mission goals.



The VA OIT Health Finance Product Line (FPL) supports Revenue Operations.  FPL strives to consolidate, integrate, and streamline the delivery of its products to improve Veterans’ access to care by reducing redundancies and increasing efficiencies.  To this end, FPL has established Sub-Product Lines with product teams that are focused on specific strategic themes and requirements of the consolidation effort and require support to develop, test, deploy, and operate useful and usable products and solutions employing a Development, Security, and Operations (DevSecOps) methodology and Essential Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) practices and any other VA-approved practices in the future. Scaled Agile Framework best practices are to be followed including the support of Program Increment (PI) Planning sessions. All development is expected to be completed using Agile practices including user stories and Agile ceremonies.  This also includes regular scrum meetings with the developers including the VA OIT Product Manager (PM) and appointed PMO staff. 



Product teams work with one another to ensure continuous delivery and continuous improvement resulting in business value.  The requirements identified in this Performance Work Statement (PWS) are intended to provide development, testing, deployment, security and operations support for legacy, current, and future FPL Revenue Operations products in a DevSecOps lifecycle.  FPL complies with the Federal Government Cloud SMART initiative.  VA anticipates and understands the need for the Contractor to do some development in the Contractor IT environments; however, all shippable products must be staged in a VA-approved environment.  Contract teammates support the above Agile / DevSecOps process in conjunction with the Revenue Operations Program team. This team manages the Robotic Process Automation Work Group (RPAWG), a key element of the Revenue Operations leadership teams governance process.



APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS

In the performance of the tasks associated with this Performance Work Statement, the Contractor shall comply with the following:

VHA Finance Program and Sub-Product Lines Overview (Attachment A) 

VHA Finance DevSecOps Application List (Attachment B) 

VHA Finance Sample Product Backlogs (Attachment C)

DSO Product Line Management Playbook, May 2021 (Attachment D)

“Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014”

Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication 140-3, “Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules”, March 22, 2019

FIPS Pub 199. “Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems,” February 2004

FIPS Pub 200, “Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems,” March 2006

FIPS Pub 201-3, “Personal Identity Verification of Federal Employees and Contractors,” January 2022

10 U.S.C. § 2224, "Defense Information Assurance Program", as amended

5 U.S.C. § 552a, as amended, “The Privacy Act of 1974” 

Public Law 109-461 (P.L. 109-461), Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006, as amended, Title IX, Information Security Matters

42 U.S.C. § 2000d “Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964”, as amended

VA Directive 0710, “Personnel Security and Suitability Program,” June 4, 2010, https://www.va.gov/vapubs/index.cfm

VA Handbook 0710, “Personnel Security and Suitability Program,” May 2, 2016, https://www.va.gov/vapubs/index.cfm

VA Directive 6102, “Internet/Intranet Services,” August 5, 2019

36 C.F.R. Part 1194 “Information and Communication Technology Standards and Guidelines,” as amended

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, “Managing Federal Information as a Strategic Resource,” July 28, 2016

32 C.F.R. Part 199, “Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS)”, as amended

NIST SP 800-66 Rev. 2, “Implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Security Rule: A Cybersecurity Resource Guide,” February 2024

45 C.F.R Parts 160 and 164, Subparts A and E, the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information (“Privacy Rule”); and 45 C.F.R. Parts 160 and 164, Subparts A and C, the Security Standard (“Security Rule”); as amended

Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. § 794d), as amended

Homeland Security Presidential Directive (12) (HSPD-12), August 27, 2004

VA Directive 6500, “VA Cybersecurity Program,” February 24, 2021 (see VA NOTICE 24-18, dated September 27, 2024, “Update to VA Directive 6500 Cybersecurity Program”, and VA Notice 25-07, dated 3/18/25, “Amending VA Directive 6500 to incorporate M-24-15”)

VA Handbook 6500, “Risk Management Framework for VA Information Systems VA Information Security Program,” February 24, 2021 (see VA Notice 25-01, dated October 15, 2024, “Update to VA Handbook 6500 Risk Management Framework for VA Information Systems VA Information Security Program”, and VA Notice 25-06, dated 3/18/25, “Amending VA Directive 6500 to incorporate M-24-15”)

VA Handbook 6500.2, “Management of Breaches Involving Sensitive Personal Information (SPI),” June 30, 2023

VA Handbook 6500.6, “Contract Security,” March 12, 2010 (see VA Notice 24-12, dated April 22, 2024, “Update to VA Handbook 6500.6, Contract Security, Appendix C VA Information and Information System Security/Privacy Language For Inclusion Into Contracts, As Appropriate”)

VA Handbook 6500.8, “Information System Contingency Planning,” March 25, 2025

VA Handbook 6500.10, “Mobile Device Security Policy,” February 15, 2018

VA Handbook 6500.11, “VA Firewall Configuration,” August 22, 2017

OIT Process Asset Library (PAL), OIT Process Asset Library.

One-VA Technical Reference Model (TRM) (reference at https://www.va.gov/trm/TRMHomePage.aspx)

VA Directive 6508, “Implementation of Privacy Threshold Analysis and Privacy Impact Assessment,” October 15, 2014

VA Directive 6510, “VA Identity, Credential and Access Management,” September 3, 2024

VA Handbook 6510, “VA Identity, Credential and Access Management,” September 27, 2024

VA Directive and Handbook 6513, “Secure External Connections,” October 12, 2017

VA Directive 6300, “Records and Information Management,” September 21, 2018

VA Handbook, 6300.1, “Records Management Procedures,“ March 24, 2010

NIST SP 800-37 Rev 2, “Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy,” December 2018

NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, “Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations,” September 23, 2020 (includes updates as of 12/10/2020)

VA Directive 0735, “Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) Program,” October 26, 2015

VA Handbook 0735, “Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) Program,” March 24, 2014

OMB Memorandum 05-24, “Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12 – Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors,” August 5, 2005

OMB Memorandum M-19-17, “Enabling Mission Delivery Through Improved Identity, Credential, and Access Management,” May 21, 2019

OMB Memorandum, “Guidance for Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12 Implementation,” May 23, 2008

Federal Identity, Credential, and Access Management (FICAM) Architecture, June 30, 2023 (FICAM Architecture (idmanagement.gov))

NIST SP 800-116 Rev 1, “Guidelines for the Use of Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Credentials in Facility Access,“ June 2018

NIST SP 800-63-3, 800-63A, 800-63B, 800-63C, “Digital Identity Guidelines,” updated March 02, 2020

NIST SP 800-157, “Guidelines for Derived PIV Credentials,” December 2014

VA Memorandum, VAIQ #7100147, “Continued Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12),” April 29, 2011 (reference https://www.voa.va.gov/documentlistpublic.aspx?NodeID=514)

IAM Identity Management Business Requirements Guidance document, May 2013, (reference Enterprise Architecture Section, PIV/IAM (reference https://www.voa.va.gov/documentlistpublic.aspx?NodeID=514)

 VA Memorandum “Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Logical Access Policy Clarification,” July 17, 2019, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=4896

Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) 3.0 Core Guidance Documents, https://www.cisa.gov/publication/tic-30-core-guidance-documents

OMB Memorandum M-19-26, “Update to the Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) Initiative,” September 12, 2019

OMB Memorandum M-08-23, “Securing the Federal Government’s Domain Name System Infrastructure,” August 22, 2008

Sections 524 and 525 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, (P.L. 110–140), December 19, 2007

Section 104 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, (P.L. 109–58), August 8, 2005

Executive Order 13221, “Energy-Efficient Standby Power Devices,” August 2, 2001

VA Directive 0057, “VA Environmental Management Program,” October 25, 2022

Office of Information Security (OIS) VAIQ #7424808 Memorandum, “Remote Access,” January 15, 2014, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentListPublic.aspx?NodeId=28

Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996, 40 U.S.C. §11101 and §11103

 “Veteran Focused Integration Process (VIP) Guide 4.0,” March  2021, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=4371

VA Memorandum “Proper Use of Email and Other Messaging Services,” January 2, 2018, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentListPublic.aspx?NodeId=28

“Product Line Management Transformation Playbook” version 3.1, August 2023, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=4946

NIST SP 500-267B Revision 1, “USGv6 Profile,” November 2020

OMB Memorandum M-21-07, “Completing the Transition to Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6),” November 19, 2020

Social Security Number (SSN) Fraud Prevention Act of 2017

Section 240 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act (CAA) 2018, March 23, 2018

C.F.R Title 15 Part 7, “Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services (ICTS) Supply Chain”, as amended

Executive Order 14028, “Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity,” May 12, 2021, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/16/executive-order-on-strengthening-and-promoting-innovation-in-the-nations-cybersecurity/

OMB Memorandum M-22-09, “Moving the U.S. Government Toward Zero Trust Cybersecurity Principles”, January 26, 2022, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/M-22-09.pdf. 

NIST SP 800-52 Revision 2, “Guidelines for the Selection, Configuration, and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations

OMB M-22-18, “Enhancing the Security of the Software Supply Chain through Secure Software Development Practices,” September 14, 2022

OMB M-23-16, “Update to Memorandum M-22-18,” June 9, 2023

OMB M-21-31, “Improving the Federal Government’s Investigative and Remediation Capabilities Related to Cybersecurity Incidents,” August 27, 2021

NIST SP 800-88 Revision 1 “Guidelines for Media Sanitization,” December 2014

CISA Binding Operational Directive (BOD) 19-02: “Vulnerability Remediation Requirements of Internet-Accessible Systems,” April 29, 2019, BOD 19-02: Vulnerability Remediation Requirements for Internet-Accessible Systems | CISA

CISA BOD 22-01: “Reducing the Significant Risk of Known Exploited Vulnerabilities,” November 3, 2021, BOD 22-01: Reducing the Significant Risk of Known Exploited Vulnerabilities | CISA

CISA BOD 23-01: Improving Asset Visibility and Vulnerability Detection on Federal Networks.” Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), BOD 23-01: Improving Asset Visibility and Vulnerability Detection on Federal Networks | CISA

VA Directive 6550, Pre-Procurement Assessment and Implementation of Medical Devices/Systems, June 03, 2019

VA Memorandum, “VA Security Controls,” January 17, 2025, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=5010



SCOPE OF WORK

The Contractor shall provide Revenue Operations with the required support in three critical areas:

Revenue Operations Workflow Functionality 

Claims scoring, reporting and payment efficacy 

Managerial and Technical Process Optimization 



The Contractor shall provide a shippable product, operations support, and security compliance for the Revenue Operations Sub-Product Line under the FPL. A shippable product is defined as one that has been deployed to a production-like environment, validated through testing, monitored for resiliency, and determined to be operable and accepted by customers. A product is completed when fully released into production and accepted by the business. This support includes all design, development, testing, integration, and architecture (with concurrence from enterprise and product line architecture), refactoring as needed, and all ongoing planned and unplanned operations and maintenance support to include predictive, preventative, corrective, and evolutionary maintenance through a cycle of Continuous Integration. The Contractor shall utilize DevSecOps principles and SAFe practices in partnership with VA.  The Contractor shall provide cross-functional, Agile teams of varying size to build and maintain a platform with capabilities to streamline systems, improve scalability, increase availability and reliability of services, and more accurately measure investments in terms of business value while enabling more efficient delivery.  The Agile team(s) shall work to strengthen the FPL by meeting and continuing to exceed Product Line Management maturity guidelines and DevSecOps and SAFe methodologies.  These guidelines are evolving and subject to change as maturity develops within VA.



The Contractor shall adhere to VA and Office of Information Technology (OIT) policies and procedures to include, the Product Line Management Playbook, the Veteran-Focused Integration Process (VIP) Guide or VA-approved Release Management Process and adopt modern practices to continuously improve VA experiences through a combination of people, processes, and technology.



The Contractor shall provide the commercial components of the VA’s automated payer compliance and workflow management tools. This includes the provision of licensure for both tools. Additionally, the Contractor shall maintain their applications on VA servers to include installation on new servers, migration between old and new servers and coordinating data traffic to new servers, as necessary. The Contractor shall work with appropriate OIT groups such as  VA App and Database teams as they provide new server virtual machines with Windows and Structured Query Language (SQL).



The Contractor shall also provide continued development/configuration, healthcare insurance modeling, and maintenance/sustainment in support of the revenue operations information technology business tools. 



The Contractor shall also provide support services inclusive of revenue cycle management consulting services in support of Revenue Operations business operations and practices.    



The Contractor shall provide necessary development, delivery and maintaining of training where applicable for associated builds in alignment with RO business practices and associated information technology.



PERFORMANCE DETAILS



PERFORMANCE PERIOD

The PoP shall be one 12-month base period plus four 12-month option periods and five optional tasks.



There are 11 Federal holidays set by law (USC Title 5 Section 6103) that VA follows:



Under current definitions, five are set by date:



New Year's Day				January 1

Juneteenth					June 19

Independence Day				July 4

Veterans Day					November 11

Christmas Day					December 25



If any of the above falls on a Saturday, then Friday shall be observed as a holiday.  Similarly, if one falls on a Sunday, then Monday shall be observed as a holiday.



The other six are set by a day of the week and month:



Martin Luther King's Birthday	Third Monday in January

Washington's Birthday	Third Monday in February

Memorial Day	Last Monday in May

Labor Day	First Monday in September

Columbus Day	Second Monday in October

Thanksgiving	Fourth Thursday in November

 

PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

Efforts under this TO shall be primarily performed off-site at Contractor facilities. Work may be performed at remote locations only with prior concurrence from the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR).



TRAVEL

The Government anticipates travel under this effort to perform the tasks associated with the effort, as well as to attend program-related meetings or conferences throughout the PoP.  Include all estimated travel costs in your firm-fixed price line items.  These costs will not be directly reimbursed by the Government.



The total estimated annual number of trips in support of the program related meetings for this effort is 10 (10 trips in each of the base and four option periods).  Anticipated, typical locations include the following, estimated at three (3) – four (4) days in duration:

	

Location

Smyrna, TN

Madison, WI

Orlando, FL

Lebanon, PA

Leavenworth, KS

Las Vegas, NV

Asheville, NC



SPECIFIC TASKS AND DELIVERABLES



PROJECT MANAGEMENT

The Contractor shall initially utilize Essential SAFe practices for product management to deliver iteratively and incrementally which regularly produces high quality results in a cost effective, timely, and highly collaborative manner via value driven DevSecOps product lifecycle. The Contractor shall apply a DevSecOps approach that unifies software development, security, and operations; mandates collaboration across multiple IT functional divisions; prioritizes ongoing solution-oriented communication between the business and the IT organization; and develop, deliver, enhance, and manage applications and infrastructure for the business and supporting products. 



CONTRACTOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN

The Contractor shall deliver a Contractor Project Management Plan (CPMP) that lays out the Contractor’s approach, timeline, and tools to be used in execution of the contract.  The CPMP should take the form of both a narrative and graphic format that displays the schedule, milestones, risks, and resource support.  The CPMP shall also include how the Contractor shall coordinate and execute planned, routine, and ad hoc data collection reporting requests as identified within the PWS.  The initial baseline CPMP shall be concurred upon and updated in accordance with Section B of the contract.  The Contractor shall update and maintain the VA PM approved CPMP throughout the PoP. 



Deliverable:  

Contractor Project Management Plan



REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

The Contractor shall provide the COR with  monthly Progress Reports in electronic form in Microsoft Word and Project formats.  The report shall include detailed instructions/explanations for each required data element, to ensure that data is accurate and consistent.  These reports shall reflect data as of the last day of the preceding month.



The monthly  Progress Reports shall cover all work completed during the reporting period and work planned for the subsequent reporting period.  The report shall also identify any problems that arose and a description of how the problems were resolved.  If problems have not been completely resolved, the Contractor shall provide an explanation including their plan and timeframe for resolving the issue.  The report shall also include an itemized list of all Information and Communication Technology (ICT) deliverables and their current Section 508 conformance status.  The Conotractor shall monitor performance against the CPMP and report any deviations.  It is expected that the Contractor will keep in communication with VA accordingly so that issues that arise are transparent to both parties to prevent escalation of outstanding issues.



Deliverable:  

Monthly Progress Report



SECURITY AND PRIVACY

The Contractor shall provide support, applicable documentation, and coordination with Information System Security Officers (ISSOs) and Information System Owners (ISO) to ensure consistency with VA ATO (Knowledge Service eMASS) requirements for certification to ensure that the software enhancements meet VA information security policies and standards. The Contractor shall provide a Cyber Security Analysts to act as the liaison between Government ISSOs, ISOs, and contract staff.

The Contractor shall: 



1. Support Field Security Services (FSS) ISSOs and Office of Cyber Security (OCS) Security Control Assessment (SCA) team for assessment requirements as detailed in VA Directive 6500 and VA Handbook 6500 Information Security Program, VA Handbook 6500.3 Assessment, Authorization, and Continuous Monitoring of VA Information Systems. 



2. Conduct and participate in vulnerability scans and tests or best practice quality checks or reviews as detailed in National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-53 Rev 4 Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, when requested by the COR. Security scanning shall be performed by multiple methods and is done multiple times throughout the course of a product with methods such as infiltration testing (WASA), static code analysis tools (Fortify), threat modeling, Information Central Analytics and Metrics Platform (ICAMP), VA Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA),508 Testing and etc. 



3. Remediate critical and high vulnerabilities identified in Government scans or quality checks or reviews.



4. Provide Vulnerability Scanning Reports and Assessments as detailed in NIST SP 800-30 Rev 1 Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments. 



5. Comply with OMB Memo 11-11, the Federal CIO cybersecurity plan and VA’s enterprise cybersecurity strategy, which require migrating away from passwords to stronger two-factor authentication, specifically authentication using PIV. 



6. Provide support by identifying, documenting, reviewing, and maintaining the Assessment and Authorization (A&A) Artifacts as needed to support an ATO request in accordance with VA policy and Federal Law and guidelines, as detailed in NIST SP 800-37 Rev 1 Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle Approach. Additionally, the Contractor shall update any aspect (e.g., documentation, code, etc.) of the development based on comments from the A&A review process conducted. A&A Artifacts include the following: 



a. Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA, Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA) (coordinate with Office of Privacy). 

b. Risk Assessment (RA) (coordinate with Office of Risk Management and Incident Reporting). 

c. Security Configuration Checklist (SCC). 

d. System Interconnection Agreements (MOU and Interconnection). 

e. Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) as necessary. 

f. Boundary Diagram



Deliverables: 

A. Vulnerability Scanning Reports and Assessments 

B. A&A Artifacts



RESOURCES

The Contractor shall provide resources with a blend of specific expertise and experience in SAFe Agile, Product Management, DevSecOps, engineering, and perfective and preventive operation of products to adhere to industry standards for accomplishing the tasks outlined in this PWS.  



Technical team members are required to have skills that cover the following areas to a minimum but not limited to; VistA (if application requires this) and experience with modern software development tools, cloud, VA DevOps Tool Suite (Attachment A), as well as VA Toolsets currently in use (may be subject to change as VA matures).  



The Contractor shall provide cross-functional SAFe resources, as applicable, for the development of enhancements to the Revenue Operations products and underlying infrastructure in alignment with VA policies and procedures.  SAFe roles include, at a minimum, the following: Release Train Engineer, Scrum Master, Tech Lead, DevSecOps Engineer/Security Specialist, Solution System Architect/Engineer, and Solution Lead.  





PRODUCT MANAGEMENT DEVSECOPS ROLES

To support the FPL SAFe and DevSecOps maturity requirements, the Contractor  shall provide key roles such as, Release Train Engineering and Security Specialization, as applicable. 



Provided support shall adhere to the principles of Product Line Management, SAFe, and Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) v. 4 framework.  Responsibilities shall include, at a minimum:



Participating in Increment Planning Sessions.

Coordinating schedules between development and operations teams to ensure smooth and timely releases.

Analyzing Agile metrics to inform VA leaderships on future planning efforts.

Consulting with Product Line manager and business sponsorship to align timing of releases strategically with business goals.

Identifying/addressing Risk/Issue in relationship to dependency management and coordination amongst the products.



REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

The Contractor shall use VA’s implementation of a VA-approved toolset (e.g., Jira) to provide a single Agile product lifecycle management to track execution details.  The VA-approved toolset Product Data and Artifact Repository (currently GitHub) will be used to provide a single authoritative product data and artifact repository.  All OIT product data and artifacts shall be required to be managed in this data and artifact repository daily.  All checked out artifacts shall be checked back in daily with any data updated.  The VA-approved toolset synchronizes all changed information immediately for all team members to access work proficiently without the concern of working on aged information.

The Contractor shall utilize the VA-approved toolset (currently Jira and GitHub) to:  

1.	Input and manage scheduled product increments (PI), sprints and backlog 

2.	Input and manage product Agile requirements

3.	Input and manage product risks and issues

4.	Input and manage product configurations and changes

5.	Input and manage product test plans and execution

6.	Input and manage product planning and engineering documentation

7.   Input and manage product user guides and training materials

8.   Input and manage linkages in the Requirements Traceability Matrix (to correlate requirements to change orders to configurable items to risks, impediments, and issues to test cases and test results to show full traceability (including bug and defect ratio per deployment)

9.  Input and manage Key Metrics reporting as outlined in the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for DevSecOps Support

10. Measure velocity, burn-up, and burn down for each product

11. Accurately estimate points and job size over time, product increment over product increment, product team vs product teamθ (θfor normalizing purposes, not to be used as a punitive measure of performance)



The Contractor shall create and maintain a Weekly Product Owner Report in Power Point of active and completed work (each week) with a link to the Key Metrics Dashboard in the VA-approved toolset (currently JIRA). These reports shall provide accurate, timely, and complete product information supporting Product Owner reporting requirements for both New Functionality/Process Improvement Initiatives and Issues.  The Weekly Product Owner Report shall include, at a minimum:



New Functionality/Process Improvement Initiatives



Title of the Product or Process Improvement

Description of the Product or Process Improvement

Impact Statement

Product Owner

Requestor

RPAWG assigned Priority Level (new functionality)

Product Owner assigned Priority Level (process improvement initiatives)

Dependencies

Issues, Risks and Mitigation Plans

Date identified 

Planned completion date

JIRA User Story Number



Issues

Title of the Issue 

Root cause 

Impact Statement 

The Primary Product Owner or Lead

RPAWG assigned Priority Level

Dependencies

Next Steps 

Date identified

Planned resolution date

JIRA Issue Number



The Contractor shall create and maintain a Key Metric Dashboard in the VA Agile Product Management Toolset (Jira or other VA toolset) to capture and monitor metrics related to the sprint, as well as those included in the KPIs, in addition to collated burn up, burn down, and velocity.  This Key Metrics Dashboard must be available for Ad-Hoc querying by the VA to facilitate timely transmission of information. These reports shall not be the only means of communication between the Contractor and VA PM/COR to advise of performance/schedule issues and to develop strategies for addressing the issues.  The Contractor shall continuously monitor performance and report any deviation from the CPMP to the VA PM/COR during routine, regular communications built primarily around the product and product line Scrum cycle.



Deliverables:

Weekly Product Owner Report

Key Metric Dashboard



DEVSECOPS TOOLS

The contractor shall utilize VA TRM compliant tools for all DevSecOps activities including the management, operations, and development of the products through their entire life cycle - oit.va.gov/services/trm/



CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT

The Contractor shall:

Update the Configuration Management Database (CMDB). VHA Finance is currently using Service Now (SNOW) to identify the standard and unique aspects of configuration management (CM) to be performed for each product by establishing a VHA Finance Configuration Management Plan (CMP) which meets FPL Guidelines for CM plan and CMDB requirements. The CMDB shall serve as the central VHA Finance repository that captures delivery level artifacts. The Contractor shall reflect all CM required activities and standards in the VHA Finance CMP while determining the unique aspects of the product which require individualized procedures. This includes updating and executing the VHA Finance CMP provided by VA. The COR and VA PM will approve the CMP.



Deliver a Recommended List of Configuration Items, including but not limited to configuration identification, configuration control and configuration audit, as part of the VHA Finance CMP, to be placed under configuration and change control. The Contractor shall identify types of configuration items pertaining to each product to be placed under configuration management. Based on FPL requirements, and the unique needs or nature of each product, the Contractor shall determine the components within each product that must be under configuration control.



Use a VA-approved tool and repository for all software source code and electronic artifact configuration and version management. The Contractor shall use the VA approved tool to manage change, activity, issue, action, risk, and other product data as prescribed by VA standards and processes. If assigned a product using tools that are being deprecated, the Contractor shall assist the VA Tools Team in migrating products using other Change and/or Configuration Management tools. 



Ensure that all product software and non-software artifacts (including binaries) are versioned correctly according to VA standards and follow a PI/deployment promotion versioning approach which identifies all major, minor, and update changes to the components.



Create Product and Product Artifacts baselined and versioned in the VHA Finance CMDB repository to allow the tool to show active and past histories of the check-ins and check-outs of all software components, data, testing, and software product engineering documents. Maintain all baselines of software, PIs, and electronic artifacts in the repository, labeling updates and versions according to CM procedures. 



Develop, verify and submit with all PI deliveries, a Version Description Document (VDD) that addresses the manifest of the contents of all software PIs created for product deployments outside the development environment. 



Manage binary artifacts in the repository using industry best practice standards (e.g., snapshot, deployments). 



Establish and maintain status reporting on change and configuration management activity and ensure VA-approved tools data records and artifacts are filed and updated daily.



Develop and manage a CM process that supports all necessary changes for the product including changes to Definition of Done, Acceptance Criteria and any other items deemed necessary. 



Deliverables:

Configuration Management Database

VHA Finance Configuration Management Plan (CMP)

Version Description Document



REVENUE OPERATIONS WORKFLOW FUNCTIONALITY AND CLOUD COMPUTING

Revenue operations requires an operational user-based workflow tool. The tool works to automate and manage repeatable, predictable business processes to ensure consistency, reduce errors and gain efficiency across the business line.



The Contractor shall provide healthcare revenue workflow management, robotic process automation or RPA, and licenses, that can be used to sustain and exceed the overall objectives of the CPAC operations model. Combined, the tools shall support CPAC goals for improving the performance of revenue collections. The healthcare revenue workflow and payer compliance tools shall generate workflow items for manual review and distribution to staff. The RPA tools shall provide automation assistance to approved work processes that reduce manual staff intervention. The healthcare revenue workflow management, RPA, and payer compliance tools shall support the CPAC goals for continuously improving the performance of revenue collections with an electronic mechanism to assist in the prioritization, distribution, tracking and reporting of daily workload associated with the CPAC Revenue Cycle. The revenue collection workflow management, RPA, and payer compliance tools shall increase organizational productivity and revenue cash flow.



The contractor shall build, provide and implement a cloud computing migration plan. It is expected that the vendor works closely and often with Revenue Operations and their Information technology teammates to ensure an effective plan and implementation of cloud computing functionality. The contractor manages its build and product delivery process alongside and with guidance from the Revenue Process Automation Work Group (RPAWG), a key programmatic element of the Revenue Operations governance process. 



Cloud computing migration plan must be provided to VA within 90 days of award. The plan must include:

Data migration

Data ownership

Data security

Data flow and return – VA retains full ownership of data at all times.

Performance and Metrics

System Downtime and Business Continuity

Intellectual Property and Tool usage

Comprehensive future state architecture documentation 

Target cloud architecture diagrams

Cloud service selection and rationale 

Cloud credit/cost formulas  

Risk assessment

Implementational and migration schedules

FedRAMP baseline mapping

Security control implementation plan

Continuous monitoring Strategy 

Backup and DR design

Incident Response Updates

Rollback Plan

Change Management



Workflow tool cloud migration, conversion must be complete no more than nine months after VA acceptance of migration plan if timeline is within both the VA and the vendor’s reasonable control. Earlier or immediate conversion is acceptable if vendor can support this activity.



The Contractor shall provide the enterprise solution which may include the need to deliver licensure for a Revenue Workflow Management Tool (WFT) and all applicable updates, and maintenance for the VA enterprise. 



The Contractor shall provide all UiPath updates and maintenance for the Robotic Process Automation (RPA) solution.



The Contractor shall explore and implement Low code/No Code possibilities wherever possible.

These workflow management, RPA require integration with the following environments (and any other determined VA data sets) where appropriate:

VistA VA legacy environment.

Central Data Warehouse (CDW) located at Austin information Technology Center (AITC)

EHRM Oracle Health Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) Server located at AITC

Financial Service Center located at AITC



The revenue workflow management, RPA, store and use data internal to the VA network. The revenue workflow management, RPA tool architecture shall not store, transmit or otherwise communicate data beyond the boundaries of the VA network. All data generated or loaded into the workflow management and payer compliance tool shall remain the property of the U.S. Government.



VA requires provisioning, continued development/configuration, modeling, change management and sustainment of automated RO, workflow management and payer compliance healthcare revenue business tools. To meet these requirements, the Contractor shall provide technical services to include configuration and modification of existing interfaces for the aforementioned business tools with current VA legacy systems and processes. In addition, the Contractor shall provide software licenses and software maintenance (updates and bug fixes for the software and models). The recommended platform and operating systems (O/S) shall be compliant with the standards of VA and VA Enterprise Architecture (EA) and existing SFTPs. The Contractor shall provide a Physical and Logical Architecture Drawing of the revenue workflow management, RPA, and payer compliance tool, with interface controls identified in an “as is” and “to be” state, with all internal process definitions, process flows and data flows identified by Revenue leaders.

The contractor will support and be an active member of the Revenue Operations Programmatic process to ensure updates, enhancements and other work is appropriately socialized, prioritized and implemented in accordance with VA staff.



The workflow team and contract support team may be required to integrate, data share with other Revenue based tools such as payer compliance or staffing models among others. 

The healthcare revenue workflow management tool shall provide support to the following departments within CPAC RO: Revenue Utilization Review, Insurance Verification, Accounts Receivable, Facility Revenue, Billing, Pharmacy, Cash Management, Payer Relations and Veterans Services. Other teams and departments may emerge throughout the life of the contract. The healthcare revenue workflow management tool shall be able to perform/provide, at a minimum, the following tasks/features:



Extract revenue cycle data from VistA and present work items to users which can be distributed, stratified, prioritized and/or escalated based on various factors such as dollar value of account, insurance carrier, and days outstanding.

Enable users to move work items to employee and manager work list.

Enable users to move work items between VAMCs within a CPAC.

Enable supervisors to monitor user accounts and perform quality checks on work items.

Manage processes and reports related to specific VA revenue cycle work items to include:

Prosthetic Devices

Outpatient Mental Health Visits

First Party Claims Matching

Pharmacy Pre-Certification

Enterprise (CPAC-wide) Denials

Enterprise (CPAC-wide) Summary Reporting

Workload Forecast Reporting

Front-end Denials Capture and Reporting

Unbilled Pharmacy Claims

Accounts Receivable Compliance

Insurance Verification Buffer File

Biller Productivity Management

Billed Revenue Reporting

Revenue Performance – Community Care Claims



Provide the capability for processing Non-Medical Care Collection Funding (Non- MCCF) claims alongside Medical Care Collection Fund claims. In accordance with VHA directive 1660.06, support the process of tracking, affirmation form completion by Tricare dual eligible Veterans.

Provide reporting capabilities that encompass all CPAC revenue cycle functions.

Provide the capability to source Community Care (IVC) claim payment data from multiple sources to support the various Community Care programs. This includes, at a minimum, extracting data from VistA and the Financial Service Center (FSC) Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW).

Provide the capability to supplement Community Care (IVC) claim payment data by pulling insurance and eligibility information from the referring VistA station to ensure accurate billing of First Party and Third-Party billings.

Provide the capability to route Community Care (IVC) claims payment data to a customized Workflow Tool modified to accommodate Community Care encounters, processes, and unique worklists to aid in the processing of Community Care claims. Community Care module streamlines the Community Care Workflow Tool functionality, offers specific Community Care customizations and allows for additional population inclusions as the Community Care program continues to expand.

Optimize workflow efficiencies by providing dynamic logic that minimizes the volume of manually reviewed workload that doesn’t require action.

Provide executive reporting capabilities that encompass all CPAC revenue cycle functions to compare data between VAMCs, VISNs and CPACs.

Provide capability for Durable Medical Equipment (DME)/prosthetics billing and Community Care pre-billing review to continue in the WFT following each of the facilities’ transition to the EHRM Oracle Health Solution. This is made possible by the integration of the OH (Millennium) Other Health Insurance (OHI) data extract into the WFT.

Comply with International Classification of Diseases 11th Edition, Clinical Modification/Procedure Coding System (International Classification of Diseases (ICD) 11).

Comply with VA Financial Policy Volume XII, Debt Management, Chapter 4 Medical Care Debt.

Measure productivity at the staff, unit, department and facility level.

Accessibility should be limited to authorized users throughout the CPAC Region (s) via the VA network.

Provide the ability to report from VAMC, VISN, Regional CPAC, and VA Central Office with VHA’s regionalization of revenue collections using the CPAC business model, as workload increases, mandated changes are identified, data volume increases, number of users fluctuate, and as opportunities arise to achieve efficiencies.

Maintain or improve the ability of VA to provide improved revenue collection services that focus on integral cash generation, improved payer management and standardization of processes.

Provide Revenue Cycle Reports including accounts receivable and cash flow that aggregate data and detect and report performance variance to SOPs for revenue collections. The reporting mechanisms shall report data at the Medical Center, VISN, CPAC and enterprise level.

Provide, build and maintain work lists and shared custom workflow management tools that are customized to meet the revenue requirements of VA including extracting insurance accounts from VistA but excluding those accounts with only Medicare Part A (as VA does not bill Medicare), for analysis, utilizing workflows in standardized and custom reports.

Provide WFT based extracts to enhance the Quality Evaluation System Tool (QUEST) to support the automatic population of randomized accounts into the QUEST tool for Quality Reviews versus manual report pulls and data entry.

Provide WFT based extracts to enhance the Veteran Affairs Patient Account Resource System (VAPARS) refund process to allow certain fields within Veteran Services Claims Matching refund vouchers to be populated automatically versus manual data entry by end users.

Provide ad hoc extracts or reports for upstream or downstream partners as needed to facilitate troubleshooting and automation.



The RPA / workflow tool shall provide support to the following departments, at a minimum, within CPAC RO, Revenue utilization Review, Insurance Verification, Facility Revenue, Pharmacy, and Veterans Services. The RPA tool shall be able to perform/provide, at a minimum, the following tasks/features:



Automate unattended bots across all VistA instances using UiPath RPA or technology of VA’s choice.

Automate the process of cancelling charges in VistA using Veteran and charge data pulled for VistA reporting.

Use automation to create an exception-based workflow for the no insurance review process for Veterans registered without insurance coverage.

Automate the process for cancelling charges and documenting in VistA for prescription charges that are not related to a legal decision.

Automate the Claims Matching Release/Decrease process prescription claims and for non-electronic payers.

Automate the process of documenting the appropriate reason not billed in VistA following Revenue Utilization Review team review.

Automate or continue the automation of the process of running and organizing the 1PCX report from VistA for entry into the VAPARS tool.

Provide monthly reporting detailing total automation activity and associate Full Time Equivalent (FTE) hours and Return on Investment (ROI) savings via the Monthly RPA Tool Dashboard.

Provide total automation activity detail reporting including successfully worked accounts, system exceptions, business exceptions, and the reasons behind each outcome via the Monthly RPA Tool Dashboard.



            Deliverables:

Workflow Management Tool and Licenses 

Workflow Management Tool Updates and Maintenance 

Physical and Logical Architecture Drawings of the revenue workflow management, RPA, and payer compliance tool

Monthly RPA Tool Dashboard

Workflow tool Cloud Migration plan no later than three months post award



MAINTENANCE SUPPORT



The Contractor shall provide maintenance support of the healthcare revenue workflow management, RPA, and payer relations tools during standard business hours (defined as 7:00AM eastern standard time (EST) to 8:00 PM EST) across all time zones. The Contractor shall provide records of all maintenance actions in the Monthly Maintenance Report.  Maintenance support shall include ongoing updates to existing workflow tool worklists to correspond with business process changes. The Contractor shall adhere to the requirements of an Authority to Operate (ATO).  The Contractor shall also actively address and resolve all production tickets related to the maintenance and support of the WFT, RPAs and PCT following standard VA SLAs. The Contractor will ensure that all Operations and Maintenance (O&M) issues are accounted for and tracked in the VA’s tool of choice (currently Service Now (SNOW)) Major issues are expected to be communicated to all product stakeholders promptly following standard VA ticket SLAs. The stakeholders include OIT, Program teammates, Business, and Development members.  All operations and maintenance activities shall be coordinated with VA designated operations managers.



Contractor shall adhere to the requirements of an Authority to Operate (ATO).  The Contractor shall also actively address and resolve all production tickets related to the maintenance and support of the workflow tool following standard VA SLAs. The Contractor will ensure that all Operations and Maintenance (O&M) issues are accounted for and tracked in the VA’s tool of choice (currently Service Now (SNOW) Major issues are expected to be communicated to all product stakeholders promptly following standard VA ticket SLAs. The stakeholders include OIT, Program team, Business, and Development members.  All operations and maintenance activities shall be coordinated with VA designated operations managers.



The Contractor shall perform any required server migration activities and support WFT Server Migration as required by the VA . This will be conducted in accordance with OIT staff and coordinated with IT PMs.



The Contractor shall provide a Workflow Management, RPA & Payer Compliance Maintenance Plan and a Monthly Maintenance Support Status Report documenting all activities in the previous month.

 

Deliverables:  

Workflow Management, RPA & Payer Compliance Maintenance Plans

Monthly Maintenance Support Status Report



CLAIMS SCORING, REPORTING AND PAYMENT EFFICACY 

The Contractor shall provide all healthcare revenue payer compliance tools, and licenses. 



The payer compliance tools shall support the CPAC goals for continuously improving the performance of revenue collections with an electronic mechanism to assist in the prioritization, distribution, tracking and reporting of daily workload associated with the CPAC Revenue Cycle. The payer compliance tools shall increase organizational productivity and revenue cash flow.



The Contractor shall update and maintain all existing compliance modeling of Insurance Carrier Agreements that compare actual reimbursement to expected payments and quantify payment variances based on the VA approved reimbursement methodology.

 

Maintenance includes: requested changes or updates that work within the existing build and existing reporting structure for existing payer builds that include a group/member/plan-based mapping rules.



The Contractor shall provide a Monthly Insurance Carrier Agreement Management Report outlining updates accomplished in the previous month.  Effort shall include collection and validation of the following prior to initiation of updates:



Validation of fee schedules

Validation of language 

Validation of claim and charge level data for analytics to include: all third-party claim and charge data with all AR statuses from FY2011 – current; including Medicare claims

Validation of industry Standard Code Tables National Provider Identifier (NPI), Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code descriptions and rollups, Diagnostic Related Group (DRG) code descriptions, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) rates for Profee and Pharmacy, National Correct Coding (CCI) edits and zip codes.

Validation of specific data tables: 1. Insurance Name/Payer (loaded and non-loaded). 2. American National Standards Institute (ANSI) 835 codes and VA location NPI

Validation of allowable calculation logic 

Research/training on managed care contracts at the CPAC Manager, CPAC Specialist, Analytics Group, Revenue Operations Group, Policy Analyst and Director levels

Allowable calculation research/methodology coaching at the CPAC Manager, CPAC Specialist, Analytics Group, Revenue Operations Group, Policy Analyst and Director levels

Analytics training and support at the CPAC Manager, CPAC Specialist, Analytics Group, Revenue Operations Group, Policy Analyst and Director levels

Payer Compliance tool reports and custom reports training (for new reports/custom reports) at the CPAC Manager, CPAC Specialist, Analytics Group, Revenue Operations Group, Policy Analyst and Director levels



Deliverable:

Monthly Insurance Carrier Agreement Management Report



REVENUE OPERATIONS EHRM TRANSITION SUPPORT  (PAYER COMPLIANCE)

Millennium Oracle Health IT Support

Monitor and support the identification, documentation, development, tool transition and deployment of additional system requirements and capability sets.

Provide ongoing support for OH EHRM remittance data integration in the Payer Compliance Tool



PAYER COMPLIANCE 

The Contractor shall provide the enterprise licensure for a payer compliance tool and all applicable updates and maintenance for the VA enterprise. 



The Contractor shall provide payer compliance tools, and licenses, that can be used to sustain and exceed the overall objectives of the CPAC operations model. These tools shall support CPAC goals for improving the compliance and performance of revenue collections.  The payer compliance tools shall generate items for manual review and distribution to staff, support the CPAC goals for continuously improving the performance of revenue collections and increase organizational productivity and cash flow 



The payer compliance tools require integration with the following environments (and any other determined VA data sets) where appropriate:



VistA environment. 

Central Data Warehouse (CDW) located at Austin information Technology Center (AITC)

OH EHRM Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) Server located at AITC

Financial Service Center located at AITC



The payer compliance tools shall store and use data internal to the VA network.  The payer compliance tool architecture shall not store, transmit or otherwise communicate data beyond the boundaries of the VA network.  All data generated or loaded into the payer compliance tool shall remain the property of the U.S. Government.  



VA requires provisioning, continued development/configuration, modeling, change management and sustainment of payer compliance healthcare revenue business tools. To meet these requirements, the Contractor shall provide technical services to include configuration and modification of existing interfaces for the aforementioned business tools with current VA legacy systems and processes. In addition, the Contractor shall provide software licenses and software maintenance (updates and bug fixes for the software and models). The recommended platform and operating systems (O/S) shall be compliant with the standards of VA and VA Enterprise Architecture (EA) and existing SFTPs.  The Contractor shall provide a Physical and Logical Architecture  of the payer compliance tool, with interface controls identified in an “as is” and “to be” state, with all internal process definitions, process flows and data flows identified. Contractor must align compliance tool functionality with cloud computing portion of this PWS above, reference Workflow Tool functionality section to include dates and expectations. 



The healthcare revenue payer compliance tool shall provide support to the following departments within CPAC RO: Revenue Utilization Review, Insurance Verification, Accounts Receivable, Facility Revenue, Billing, Pharmacy, Cash Management, Payer Relations and Veterans Services.  The healthcare revenue workflow management and payer compliance tool shall be able to perform/provide, at a minimum, the following tasks/features: 



Provide the capability to source Community Care / IVC claim payment data from multiple sources to support the various Community Care programs.  This includes, at a minimum, extracting data from VistA and the Financial Service Center (FSC) Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW) and claim and charge level detail from the Oracle Health / Federal EHRM platform.



Comply with International Classification of Diseases 10th Edition, Clinical Modification/Procedure Coding System (International Classification of Diseases (ICD) 10).  Shall comply with new versions as required by the government.  



Comply with VA Financial Policy Volume XII, Debt Management, Chapter 4 Medical Care Debt.



Only be accessible to authorized users throughout the CPAC Region via the VA network.



Maintain or improve the ability of VA to provide improved revenue collection services that focus on integral cash generation, improved payer management and standardization of processes.



Provide scenario modeling of insurance carrier agreements that compare actual reimbursements to expected payments and quantify underpayments. 



Provide automatic calculation of expected allowed amounts for contracted payers for designated bill types and place of service. 



Enable searching for historical claim data back to fiscal year 2010. 



Provide reports displaying the agreement performance in various views, to include: remark codes at charge and claim level, top procedures by total charges and insurance, Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) and DRG code range, take backs/refunds, bill type, payer mix, fiscal year trends, ability to view by CPAC, VISN and Medical Center, auto upload account number and notes from accounts, display statistics of most commonly denied bundled codes and provide graphics.



Provide reports with search capabilities to include adjustment codes, bill type, estimated allowances at bill level, search by CPAC, VISN/VA Medical Center and plan attributes including plan id, codes at the charge and claim level.



Provide reports that can identify gaps in billing opportunities based on varying combinations of procedure codes and diagnostic codes.



Provide functionality to include quantifying percentage of the claim allowed.



Clearly distinguishes remittance data coming from primary and secondary payers, including representation of Medicare conceptual reimbursement in conjunction with other third-party payers.



Provide reports that display descriptions of payer specific reason codes, adjustment and remark codes, diagnostic code, DRG and CPT codes.



Provide users the ability to save views and/or develop customized reports.



Provide users the ability to filter reports by remit, paper bill and/or payment, denial, agreement adjustment and filter by facility, CPAC and VISN. 



Provide modeling that shall measure, and report percentage of bills allowed across insurance at facility, CPAC and VISN levels. 



Provide modeling that shall provide recommendations and compares to existing Medicare rates for benchmark comparisons of agreement performance relative to current Medicare reimbursement rates (a normalized measure to compare against all agreements). 



Provide modeling that shall record agreement expiration date and effective dates of rate inflation and provide automated alerts at varying intervals up to 180 days. 



Provide functionality to allow the end user the capability to access all data elements extracted from source and legacy systems to provide flexibility in creating ad hoc reports to support payer relations initiatives.  This functionality should provide a list of all available data elements that can be incorporated into an ad hoc report and be displayed in a selection list.  This feature shall be flexible enough to allow the end user to designate the following: the specific time frame for the report, multiple payers, multiple bill types, multiple CPACs, multiple facilities, multiple VISNs and/or multiple states and to select various data elements to incorporate into a custom report structure (i.e. tabular, graphical, etc.).  The data should be exportable into other tools and applications that allow for additional analysis of the data.  The ad hoc reports shall be able to be saved in a way that will allow them to be shared among all users of the system and can be implemented as routine reports should the situation require it.  



Provide Insurance Carrier Compliance Modeling Reports.



Provide capability for filtering/reporting on Community Care claims.



Provide pharmacy payer performance reporting.



Provide capability to extract source data to third party reporting software. 



Provide ongoing maintenance support for existing customized data extracts supporting CPAC performance reporting initiatives, e.g. NCR Data Extracts and Audit Recovery Data Extracts



Maintain mirrored fact tables (Account, Charge and Denial) in the analysis database to support SQL query reporting



Provide a robust self-service denials management tool at both the charge and claim level taking advantage of CARC codes. The tool shall enable end users to run ad-hoc pattern analysis without requiring custom reporting development for routine investigations. The tool shall provide the capability of drill-through analytics to change/adjustment-level detail, supporting the generations of ranged, targeted lists for recovery. 



The tool shall provide end users with the capacity to create customized reports using “drag and drop” functionality to rapidly analyze claim analytics. 





MAINTENANCE SUPPORT

The Contractor shall provide maintenance support of the payer compliance tool during standard business hours (defined as 7:00AM eastern standard time (EST) to 8:00 PM EST) across all time zones. The Contractor shall provide records of all maintenance actions in the Monthly Maintenance Report.  Maintenance support shall include ongoing updates to existing workflow tool worklists to correspond with business process changes. The Contractor shall adhere to the requirements of an Authority to Operate (ATO).  The Contractor shall also actively address and resolve all production tickets related to the maintenance and support of the PCT following standard VA SLAs. The Contractor will ensure that all Operations and Maintenance (O&M) issues are accounted for and tracked in the VA’s tool of choice (currently Service Now (SNOW)) Major issues are expected to be communicated to all product stakeholders promptly following standard VA ticket SLAs. The stakeholders include OIT, Program team, Business, and Development members.  All operations and maintenance activities shall be coordinated with VA designated operations managers.



The Contractor shall provide a Payer Compliance Maintenance Plan and a Monthly Maintenance Support Status Report documenting all activities in the previous month.



Deliverables:  

Payer compliance tool and licenses 

Physical and Logical Architecture Drawings of the revenue workflow management, and payer compliance tool



MANAGERIAL AND TECHNICAL CONSULTING SUPPORT

PROCESS MANAGEMENT 



The Contractor shall provide onsite (one visit per CPAC per year) observation for the purpose of process improvement, performance reviews and performance enhancements. The Contractor shall also provide continuous virtual observation for the CPACs to ensure process improvement goals are met.  Prior to the onsite visits, account level sampling of each functional area (Facility Revenue (FR), Insurance Verification/Pharmacy (IV), Revenue Utilization Review (RUR), Billing, Accounts Management (AM) and Veteran Services) shall occur.  Sampling shall measure utilization of established practices or trends.  A report of each onsite observation shall be provided in a Site Visit Report that includes an executive level summary of each functional area and an individual summary of each revenue cycle area.  The report shall compare against previous results, identify risks and recommend actions required to improve metrics. The onsite observation shall evaluate staff and management use of established objective performance metrics (quality & productivity). 



The Contractor shall provide virtual management consulting support to RO leadership, CPAC leadership teams, CPAC supervisors, and policy analysts to continue the use of best practices, effective and efficient business tools, and to maintain a focus on continuous process improvement.  This may be accomplished by the following activities:



Coordinate with CPAC leadership teams on training requests, developing and executing performance improvement initiatives, and risk mitigation strategies for each of the following:



Policy Analyst support over the course of the year



Routine meetings with CPAC leadership and management addressing various needs/topics

EHR related components coordinated with the Revenue Program team. 

Guidebook support, maintenance and program support when necessary by RO teammates. 

Ad hoc training needs for operational items and continuous Revenue Operation Workflow Tool (ROWT) enhancements. Vendor must work closely with other contract partners to ensure continuity across tools and programs. 

Updated ROWT training guides to support future process or procedures



Provide support to RO Change Management Process across Revenue Operations enterprise impacting, potentially all work efforts. This includes preparing supportive analysis or process change overviews that assist the RO Change Management decision process from Managers to CPAC leadership teams for each of the following:

Assessments related to proposed staffing components 

Legislative and policy assessments

Strategic support related to EHR implementation or other large-scale transitions

Departmental or functional transition support within various RO areas

Workload management strategies to minimize work in progress and maximize billed revenue and collections

Engage various stakeholders throughout the organization to ensure technical capabilities remain functional to support operational best practice or proposed process improvement for each of the following:

Community Care (IVC) coordination efforts

Legislative and policy assessments and implementations

Operational efforts with Revenue Operations leaders and CPAC Leaders

Continuous programmatic support of Revenue staff in dealings with OI&T, contractors support other RO tools (i.e. VAPARS, QUEST, VistA, etc.) and other internal VHA entities supporting RO (i.e. Program Integrity Team, Central Data Warehouse, etc.)



The Contractor shall provide RO with current commercial industry expertise to help support RO decision making on policy and procedural changes for each of the following:

Revenue Integrity

Various staffing related guidelines, pre–Oracle Health EHRM implementation guidance in conjunction with the Revenue Program team.

Technical recommendations related to various Revenue tools and applications.

KPI development support and guidance

Revenue Cycle operational best practices



Both onsite reviews and virtual management consulting support shall focus on the following revenue cycle performance measures:



Current fiscal year “days to bill” cycle

Current fiscal year Accounts Receivables (AR) over 90 calendar days

Verification of insurance coverage for accounts at 100% for those scheduled admissions and outpatient appointments that are scheduled 10 calendar days in advance.

Carrier Authorization Process to maintain or improve the percentage of pre-authorizations by carrier to 98% for scheduled inpatients, 90% for nonscheduled inpatients and 80% for nonscheduled outpatients

Follow-Up Process to maintain or improve proactive AR follow-up and denials management consistent with current VA policy and Financial Quality Assurance Manager (FQAM) reports related to frequency and quality of documentation

Third party insurance; carrier pre-certification and the accurate and timely identification of non-service connected (NSC) care

Current Veteran Services performance metrics. 



The Contractor shall provide a Process Improvement Monthly Status Report documenting all Process Improvement activities in the previous month.

 

Deliverables:  

Site Visit Report 

Process Improvement Monthly Status Report



ANNUAL CPAC STAFFING MODEL



Each Government Fiscal Year the Contractor shall create and lead the development and compilation of the Annual CPAC Staffing Model to support the budget planning process. This staffing model will be provided to VA leadership for their review and to inform VA decision making. The tasks associated with the development of the model include at a minimum, the following: requirements planning, cycle time analyses, data gathering, model compilation, and executive review and approval.



Deliverable:

Annual CPAC Staffing Model



RO EXECUTIVE OPERATIONS REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS



The Contractor shall assist RO leadership with the development of Monthly Executive level Operations Reports and as needed (ad hoc) Briefings. These Briefings often require the comparison of private sector RO best practices, business standards or metrics.  These Monthly Executive or ad hoc Operations Reports and Briefings may be extended to VA under-secretary, Legislative and Office of the Inspector General (IG) personnel.  The Government anticipates ten (10) to twelve (12) briefings per performance period (base and option periods 1 through 4). 



Deliverables:

Monthly Executive Operations Reports

Planned and ad hoc Briefings  	



EHRM PROGRAM SUPPORT



The Contractor shall provide support for Revenue Leadership, Policy Analysts, Product Managers and CPAC Leadership in the implementation of Oracle Health EHRM systems. Support includes product management guidance elements to ensure the progress of vital implementation components, and shall focus on issue tracking and resolution, risk management, and all necessary items to ensure success within go- live locations and future CPAC’s.



Expected support shall include:

Oracle Health EHRM IT Support to Revenue Program Team

Monitor and support the identification, documentation, development, tool transition and deployment of system functionality requirements and capability sets.

Provide ongoing support for all Revenue Operations systems, took, application to include legacy and EHRM OH.

Support enhanced change management structure and processes



Support transition of change-based requirements processes to long-term operational business owners.

Facility and CPAC EHRM Oracle Health Go-Live Preparation

Support VA Program team in the development and the execution of go-live workplans to assist with CPAC preparedness.

Support go live readiness relative to risk and risk management best practices. 

Support VA Program team in go-live readiness assessment checklist deployment of new facilities and /or EHRM OH capabilities to include payer compliance and potential workflow data.

Assist in the alignment with various stakeholders on Oracle Health implementation schedule, impacts, and the dependencies related to financial functions. This may include training support for the Revenue Operations training department. 

Ticket Management Support

Support centralized ticket log for all issues impacting Revenue Operations continued transition to Oracle Health EHRM systems.

Coordinate with various stakeholders to ensure proper prioritization and timely resolution of tickets

Facilitate reviews of open, closed and potential tickets to validate issue resolution.

Support both current and future state EHRM operational risk management.



Deliverable:

The Contractor shall provide a Monthly EHRM Transition support Status Report documenting all activities in the previous month. This report should include:

Tangible support activities taken in support of the VA Program team.

Contract staff teammates supporting tangible activities throughout the month.





THIRD PARTY ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE (EDI) TECHNICAL AND PRODUCT SUPPORT



The Contractor shall provide support for Revenue Leadership, and the eBusiness Solutions team with support includes third party EDI technical expertise. This expertise includes:



HIPAA/EDI Subject Matter Expertise related to processes and systems within an EDI healthcare revenue cycle process solutions environment.  Collect and document information needed to perform analyses of HIPAA transactions and prepare product documentation and implementation.



Ability to support and provide best practice guidance and healthcare industry monitoring of such entities as Workgroup for Electronic Data Interchange (WEDI) and the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) X12.



Product Management, Agile development and data analysis support in both the X12 and NCPDP industry standards environments. 



Ability to support SharePoint (or similar knowledge/document discovery tool) design, management and maintenance. 



Aid in 508 compliance knowledge and execution and other federally mandated policies in the development and completion of all artifacts and processes.  



Deliverable:

Monthly status and progress report of work conducted, completed and recommendations for the next month.

Project status updates, when relevant, of such work as SharePoint development and like activities.



OPTION PERIOD ONE

If the Option Period is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall perform all tasks and subtasks required by Sections 5.1-5.3, including all sub-paragraphs, of this PWS.



OPTION PERIOD TWO

If the Option Period is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall perform all tasks and subtasks required by Sections 5.1-5.3, including all sub-paragraphs, of this PWS.



OPTION PERIOD THREE

If the Option Period is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall perform all tasks and subtasks required by Sections 5.1-5.3, including all sub-paragraphs, of this PWS.



OPTIONAL TASK ONE - WORKFLOW TOOL ENHANCEMENTS



PWS Task is planned for IT funding.



If this Optional Task is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall provide software development and/or configuration services (in compliance with sections 5.1 and 5.2 of this PWS) for the tools supported under this effort at the level of support indicated below. 



The Contractor shall provide software development for enhancements and/or software changes for configurations / interfaces / maintenance updates for the Revenue Operations Workflow tool, relevant RPAs and interfaces. The Government shall provide the epics/stories/business requirements of the effort and will consult with the Contractor prior to sizing the enhancement/configuration effort. The Contractor shall track and update project status via user stories, epics, and initiatives in the VA’s tool of choice (currently Jira). The Contractor shall provide a high-level Software Development Schedule for the effort, detailing, at a minimum, planned releases, dependencies, and deliverables. The Contractor shall track all test cases and update them in VA based tools; currently Jira and shall pursue full test case automation when possible.  The Contractor shall provide new or updated BOMs if the changes require any changes in licensure or hardware. The Contractor shall provide updated or new Physical & Logical Architecture Drawings if the changes precipitate changes to architecture. If the changes require changes to the current RO maintenance support, the Contractor shall provide an updated or new Maintenance Plan. The Contractor shall deliver all final software code and/or licenses with each release.  The Contractor is responsible for escalating any software changes through all VA required testing and release procedures. The Contractor is responsible for remediating any bugs/defects identified during testing or post implementation.

 

The following table lists a description of the task sizes based on level of effort and estimated duration of optional tasks. The Government may purchase an optional task at any point throughout this task order as listed in the cart below.



Software Development Task Size

Description

Historical times to be exercised

Extra-Small (XS)

Minor development, enhancements, configurations, interfaces, or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation, workflow management or payer compliance tools.  May add minor development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.

An XS task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 1050-1150 hours over a 4-6 month period.

Four total throughout the TO

Small

Minor to moderate development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation, workflow management tool.

May add minor to moderate development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.

A small task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 2100 – 2200 hours over a 4-6 month period.

Ten total throughout the TO

Medium

Moderate development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation, workflow management tool.  May add moderate development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.

A medium task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 3150-3250 hours over a 6-8 month period.    

Eight total throughout the TO

Large

Large development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces, or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation, workflow management tool.  May add large development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.    

A large task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 4250-4350 hours over a 9-12 month period. 

Four total throughout the TO

Extra Large (XL)

Large or significant development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces, or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation, workflow management tool.  May add large or significant development or additions to automation, workflow tool logic and data extract from VA sources.  

A XL task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 6350-6450 hours over a 9-12 month period.



Four Total throughout the TO



Deliverables:  

Software Development Product Schedule

Updated or New Physical & Logical Architecture Drawings (if applicable)

Updated or New Maintenance Plan (if applicable)

Updated or New License or Source Code (if applicable)



OPTIONAL TASK TWO - PAYER COMPLIANCE MODELING



The following table lists a description of the task sizes, features and components which may be exercised under this Optional Task. The Government may purchase at any quantity any number of times as listed in the chart below.  

 

Small Insurance Carrier Agreement

Modeling of small insurance carrier agreement that compare actual reimbursement to expected payments and quantity underpayments in an Insurance Carrier Modeling Report. Small tasks will run 2-3 months in duration.

6 Total throughout the TO







Medium or Regional Carrier Insurance Agreement

Modeling of medium carrier or regional insurance carrier agreement that compare actual reimbursement to expected payments and quantity underpayments in an Insurance Carrier Modeling Report. Medium tasks will last 3-4 months in duration.

15  Total throughout the TO  

Large or Regional Insurance Carrier Agreement

Modeling of large or regional insurance carrier agreement that compare actual reimbursement to expected payments and quantity underpayments in an Insurance Carrier Modeling Report.  Large tasks will last 4-5 months in duration.

8  Total throughout the TO  



Deliverable:

Insurance Carrier Modeling Report



OPTIONAL TASK THREE - PAYER COMPLIANCE TOOLS SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT OR CONFIGURATION 





PWS task is planned for IT funding.



If this Optional Task is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall provide software development and/or configuration services (in compliance with sections 5.1 through 5.1.5 of this PWS) for the tools supported under this effort at the level of support indicated below. 



The Contractor shall provide software development for enhancements and/or software changes for configurations / interfaces / maintenance updates for the suite of RO applications and interfaces. The Government shall provide the epics/stories/business requirements of the effort and will consult with the Contractor prior to sizing the enhancement/configuration effort. The Contractor shall track and update project status via user stories, epics, and initiatives in the VA’s tool of choice (currently Jira). The Contractor shall provide a high-level Software Development Schedule for the effort, detailing, at a minimum; planned releases, dependencies, and deliverables. The Contractor shall track all test cases and update them in VA based tools; currently Jira and shall pursue full test case automation when possible.  The Contractor shall provide new or updated BOMs if the changes require any changes in licensure or hardware. The Contractor shall provide updated or new Physical & Logical Architecture Drawings if the changes precipitate changes to architecture. If the changes require changes to the current RO maintenance support, the Contractor shall provide an updated or new Maintenance Plan. The Contractor shall deliver all final software code and/or licenses with each release.  The Contractor is responsible for escalating any software changes through all VA required testing and release procedures. The Contractor is responsible for remediating any bugs/defects identified during testing or post implementation.

 

The following table lists a description of the task sizes based on level of effort and estimated duration of optional tasks. The Government may purchase an optional task at any point throughout this task order as listed in the cart below.



Software Development Task Size

Description

Historical times to be exercised

Extra-Small (XS)

Minor development, enhancements, configurations, interfaces, or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation payer compliance tools.  May add minor development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.

An XS task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 1050-1150 hours over a 4-6 month period.

4 total throughout the TO

Small

Minor to moderate development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation of payer compliance tools.  

May add minor to moderate development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.

A small task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 2100 – 2200 hours over a 4-6 month period.

4 total throughout the TO

Medium

Moderate development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces or maintenance updates in support of payer compliance tools.  May add moderate development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.

A medium task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 3150-3250 hours over a 6-8 month period.    



4  total throughout the TO

Large

Large development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces, or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations payer compliance tools.  May add large development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.    

A large task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 4250-4350 hours over a 9-12 month period. 

4 total throughout the TO

Extra Large (XL)

Large or significant development, enhancements, configuration, interfaces, or maintenance updates in support of revenue operations automation payer compliance tools.  May add large or significant development or additions to automation, workflow or payer compliance tool logic and data extract from VA sources.  

A XL task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 6350-6450 hours over a 9-12 month period.



4 Total throughout the TO





Deliverables:  

Software Development Product Schedule

Updated or New Physical & Logical Architecture Drawings (if applicable)

Updated or New Maintenance Plan (if applicable)

Updated or New License or Source Code (if applicable)









OPTIONAL TASK FOUR - REVENUE STUDIES, ASSESSMENTS AND ANALYSIS  



If this Optional Task is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall provide support for studies, operational & strategic assessments, feasibility assessments and analytical efforts to include, at a minimum; data analytics, enterprise studies, cycle time studies, development of externally directed reports, exploration of industrial benchmarking, predictive analysis, analysis of alternatives, operational assessments, strategic assessments, feasibility assessments, change management planning and performance measurement. As services and benefits for Veterans change or business expectations change within the insurance industry it is necessary for RO to study, assess or analyze the impact of these events.  The studies may include data gathering and/or shadowing of staff. If more than one revenue cycle area requires effort more than one instance of a task may be awarded. The Contractor shall compile all data and deliver the study or analysis to the Government for review and comment.



The following table lists a description of the task sizes based on level of effort and estimated duration of optional tasks. The Government may purchase an optional task at any point throughout this task order as listed in the chart below.



Revenue study, analysis or assessment - small

A small task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 500-550 hours over a 2-3 month period.

16 Total throughout the Task Order 

Revenue study, analysis or assessment - medium

A medium task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 975-1,000 hours over 3-4 month period.

40 Total throughout the Task Order

Revenue study, analysis or assessment - large

A large task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 1,975-2,000 hours equaling over a 4-6 month period.

32 Total throughout the Task Order



Deliverable:  

Revenue study, analysis, or assessment



OPTIONAL TASK FIVE – CHANGE MANAGEMENT PROCESS, TECHNIQUES, AND CONTROL SERVICES



If this Optional Task is exercised by VA, the Contractor shall support RO in the development and implementation of processes, techniques and control changes required across the enterprise associated with policy, legislation or regulatory changes, business processes, initiatives, or information technology changes.  Support shall align changes with existing revenue operations business and technology.  At the onset of each Change Management Task, the Contractor shall provide a high-level Change Management Project Schedule detailing goals and objectives, services, releases and expected deliveries for Government review and approval.  The Contractor shall provide Change Management Service Support Documents such as the following: planning, design, communication, implementation, transition, stabilization, performance measurement and logistical support services associated with process changes.  The Contractor shall provide services to develop or update guidebooks, policies, job aides, procedure documents, other training materials and key performance indicators (KPIs).  The Contractor shall provide a Change Management Monthly Summary of each task, detailing services accomplished, schedule changes and deliveries.  



The following table lists a description of the task sizes based on level of effort and estimated duration of optional tasks. The Government may purchase an optional task at any point throughout this task order as listed in the cart below.



Change Management 

Task Size

Description

Historical times to be exercised

Small

A small task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 600-620 hours over a 2-3 month period

20 Total throughout the TO

Medium

A medium task is anticipated to include working 1200-1300 hours   over a four – six-month period.  

20 Total throughout the TO

Large

A large task is anticipated to include staff working approximately 2700-2750 hours over a six to 12-month period.

24 Total throughout the TO



 Deliverables:	

Change Management Project Schedule 

Change Management Service Support Documents

Change Management Monthly Summary



GENERAL REQUIREMENTS



ENTERPRISE AND IT FRAMEWORK



VA TECHNICAL REFERENCE MODEL



The Contractor shall comply with the VA OIT Technical Reference Model (VA TRM). Compliance with the VA TRM is achieved by using only technologies and standards that are listed as approved for use in the VA TRM.  The Contractor shall provide all necessary information requested by VA to ensure TRM approval is obtained prior to use on VA’s network.  



ZERO TRUST – VA CRITICAL SECURITY CONTROLS



VA has established minimum mandatory security requirements and requires that any network connected software system or service must meet the VA Critical Security Controls as outlined in the VA Memorandum, “VA Security Controls”, https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=5010.  VA Critical Security Controls identify the minimum mandatory requirements that must be implemented across all VA enterprise infrastructure, cloud computing environments, information systems, networks, and specialized devices (medical devices/systems, special-purpose systems, and research scientific computing devices) that process, store, and/or transmit VA data.  Effective July 1, 2025, the Contractor shall implement these VA Critical Security Controls, within any network connected software system or service prior to being authorized for use in the VA.  This functional requirement is not negotiable, and Plan of Action & Milestones (POAM) will not be accepted in the event these controls cannot be implemented for new systems.  Critical Security Controls are intended to increase VA’s security posture and provide security and privacy risk visibility into the VA network and is not a new requirement.  The Contractor’s failure to maintain these VA Critical Controls after implementation will result in VA discontinuing the use of the system.



FEDERAL IDENTITY, CREDENTIAL, AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT (FICAM) 



(The below paragraph contains the requirement that all Contractor Solutions must support PIV enabled authentication at Identity Assurance Level (IAL) 3, Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL) 3, and Federation Assurance Level (FAL) 3 (if FAL is required). In addition, the PM will need to define which levels are required for their specific effort, and if the Federation Assurance Level is required. If the requiring activity has identified through their ISSO and/or OIS that their specific requirement in this PWS can be at lower Assurance Levels, then the requiring activity must change the last sentence of the below paragraph to indicate the required Assurance Levels for their specific effort.  For information regarding Assurance Level, see the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-63-3, at https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/, which includes 800-63A, 800-63B, and 800-63C.  Any questions on Assurance Levels should be addressed to OIS or your ISSO.)



The Contractor shall ensure Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) product(s), software configuration and customization, and/or new software are Personal Identity Verification (PIV) card-enabled by accepting HSPD-12 PIV credentials using VA Enterprise Architecture (EA), and VA Identity and Access Management (IAM) approved Enterprise Technology Guidelines (ETG).  The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor delivered applications and systems comply with the VA Identity, Credential, and Access Management policies and guidelines set forth in Executive Order 14028, VA Handbook 6510 VA Identity and Access Management, VA Handbook 0735 Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) Program, CISA Binding Operational Directive 23-01, and align with the Federal Identity, Credential, and Access Management Roadmap and Implementation Guidance v2.0.



The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor delivered applications and systems provide user authentication services compliant with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-63-3, VA Handbook 6500, and VA IAM enterprise requirements for direct, assertion based authentication, and/or trust based authentication, as determined by the ETGs. Direct authentication at a minimum must include Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) based authentication supportive of PIV card and/or Common Access Card (CAC), as determined by the business need.



The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor delivered applications and systems conform to the specific Identity and Access Management PIV requirements set forth in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memoranda  M-05-24, M-19-17, M-22-09, and NIST Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 201-3.  Contractor delivered applications and systems shall be on the FIPS 201 Approved Product List (APL). If the Contractor delivered application and system is not on the APL, the Contractor shall be responsible for taking the application and system through the FIPS 201 Evaluation Program.



The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor delivered applications and systems support:

Automated provisioning and are able to use enterprise provisioning service.

Interfacing with VA’s Master Person Index (MPI) to provision identity attributes, if the solution relies on VA user identities. MPI is the authoritative source for VA user identity data.

The VA defined unique identity (Secure Identifier [SEC ID] / Integrated Control Number [ICN]).

Multiple authenticators for a given identity and authenticators at every Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL) appropriate for the solution.

Identity proofing for each Identity Assurance Level (IAL) appropriate for the solution.

Federation for each Federation Assurance Level (FAL) appropriate for the solution, if applicable.

Two-factor authentication (2FA) through an applicable Technology Guideline as outlined in VA ETG.

A Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) implementation if the solution relies on assertion-based authentication. Additional assertion implementations, besides the required SAML assertion, may be provided as long as they are compliant with NIST SP 800-63-3 guidelines.

Authentication/account binding based on trusted Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) headers if the solution relies on Trust based authentication.

Role Based Access Control.

Auditing and reporting capabilities.

Compliance with VIEWS 00155984, PIV Logical Access Policy Clarification https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=4896.





The required Assurance Levels for this specific effort are Identity Assurance Level 3, Authenticator Assurance Level 3, and Federation Assurance Level 3.



INTERNET PROTOCOL VERSION 6 (IPv6)



The Contractor solution shall support IPv6-Only based upon the memo issued by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) on November 19, 2020 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/M-21-07.pdf). Which defines IPv6-only as the state of an operational system or service when IPv4 protocol functions (addressing, packet forwarding) are not in use. The NIST USGv6 profile defines technical requirements for a product to be capable of operating in IPv6-Only environments.  IPv6-Only technology, in accordance with the USGv6 Program (https://www.nist.gov/programs-projects/usgv6-program/usgv6-revision-1), NIST Special Publication (SP) 500-267B Revision 1 “USGv6 Profile” (https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.500-267Br1), and NIST SP 800-119 “Guidelines for the Secure Deployment of IPv6” (https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-119), compliance shall be included in all IT infrastructures, application designs, application development, operational systems and sub-systems, and their integration.  In addition to the above requirements, all devices, applications, and systems shall support all applicable functionality on native IPv6-Only as well as dual stack (IPv6 / IPv4) connectivity without additional memory or other resources being provided by the Government, so that they can function in a mixed environment.  All public/external facing servers and services (e.g., web, email, DNS, ISP services, etc.) shall support native IPv6-Only and dual stack (IPv6 / IPv4) users and all internal infrastructure and applications shall support using native IPv6-Only and dual stack (IPv6 / IPv4) for all functionality and operations.



TRUSTED INTERNET CONNECTION (TIC)



The Contractor solution shall meet the requirements outlined in Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-19-26, “Update to the Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) Initiative“ (https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/M-19-26.pdf), VA Directive 6513 “Secure External Connections”, and shall comply with the TIC 3.0 Core Guidance Documents, including all Volumes and TIC Use Cases, found at the Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) (https://www.cisa.gov/publication/tic-30-core-guidance-documents).  



STANDARD COMPUTER CONFIGURATION



The Contractor IT end user solution that is developed for use on standard VA computers shall be compatible with and be supported on the standard VA operating system, Windows 10 (64bit) and Windows 11, Edge (Chromium based), and 365 Apps for enterprise.  Applications delivered to VA and intended to be deployed to Windows 10 and or Windows 11 workstations shall be delivered as a signed .msi package with switches for silent and unattended installation and updates shall be delivered in signed .msp file formats for easy deployment using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager (CM) VA’s current desktop application deployment tool.  Signing of the software code shall be through a vendor provided certificate that is trusted by VA using a code signing authority such as Verizon/Cybertrust or Symantec/VeriSign.  The Contractor shall also ensure and certify that their solution functions as expected when used from a standard VA computer, with non-admin, standard user rights that have been configured using the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Secure Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) specific to the particular client operating system being used.



VETERAN FOCUSED INTEGRATION PROCESS (VIP) AND PRODUCT LINE MANAGEMENT (PLM)



The Contractor shall support VA efforts IAW the Veteran-Focused Integration Process (VIP) Guide and Product Line Management (PLM) Playbook. The major focus of VIP is on Enterprise Oversight, Governance, reporting, and establishing practices that focus on outcomes and continuously delivering sustainable IT capabilities to benefit the Veteran. PLM is a framework that focuses on delivering functional products that provide the highest priority work to customers while delivering simplified, reliable, and practical solutions to the business, medical staff, and our Veterans.  The VIP Guide is a companion guide to the PLM Transformation Playbook and can be found at: https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=4371 and the PLM Transformation Playbook can be found at https://www.voa.va.gov/DocumentView.aspx?DocumentID=4946.  VIP and PLM are the authoritative processes that IT projects must follow to ensure development and delivery of IT products.



The VIP Guide provides guidance for transitioning from project-centric to product-centric delivery.  The VIP guide applies to all OIT Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reportable products that are required to collect and report costs, schedules, risks, and other valuable information in VA PARS (whether products are procured or developed by VA) and any VA Information Technology project effort in Software Product Management (SPM) and Infrastructure Operations (IO), or their successors, that touch the VA network regardless of IT organizational alignment (whether it spends government funding from VA's Congressional IT Appropriation or any other appropriation). 



The PLM Transformation Playbook details how OIT leadership expects Product Lines (PLs) to implement PLM, DevOps, and Lean-Agile principles, methods, practices, and techniques through levels of maturity.  The PLM Transformation Playbook applies to all Information Technology (IT) products aligned to PLs in the Software Product Management, Infrastructure Operations and Product Engineering organizations within the OIT organization. 



Others outside the referenced groups or organizations may use the VIP Guide and PLM Transformation Playbook for situational awareness as needed.



PROCESS ASSET LIBRARY (PAL)



The Contractor shall perform their duties consistent with the processes defined in the OIT Process Asset Library (PAL).  The PAL includes a spectrum of OIT functions and activities, such as project management, operations, service delivery, communications, acquisition, and resource management. PAL serves as an authoritative and informative repository of searchable processes, activities or tasks, roles, artifacts, tools and applicable standards and guides to assist the OIT workforce, Government and Contractor personnel. OIT utilizes PAL processes to ensure compliance with policies and regulations and to meet VA quality standards.  The PAL includes the contractor onboarding process consistent with Section 6.2.2 and can be found at process_CONB_ext.docx (live.com).  The main PAL can be accessed at www.va.gov/process.



AUTHORITATIVE DATA SOURCES



The VA Enterprise Architecture Repository (VEAR) is one component within the overall EA that establishes the common framework for data taxonomy for describing the data architecture used to develop, operate, and maintain enterprise applications.  The Contractor shall comply with the department’s Authoritative Data Source (ADS) requirement that VA systems, services, and processes throughout the enterprise shall access VA data solely through official VA ADSs where applicable, see below.  The Information Classes which compose each ADS are located in the VEAR, in the Data & Information domain.  The Contractor shall ensure that all delivered applications and system solutions support: 

Interfacing with VA’s Master Person Index (MPI) (formerly the Master Veteran Index (MVI)) to provision identity attributes, if the solution relies on VA user identities.  MPI is the authoritative source for VA user identity data.

Interfacing with Capital Asset Inventory (CAI) to conduct real property record management actions, if the solution relies on real property records data.  CAI is the authoritative source for VA real property record management data. 

Interfacing with electronic Contract Management System (eCMS) for access to contract, contract line item, purchase requisition, offering vendor, and solicitation information above the micro-purchase threshold, if the solution relies on procurement data.  ECMS is the authoritative source for VA procurement actions data. 

Interfacing with HRSmart Human Resources Information System to conduct personnel action processing, on-boarding, benefits management, and compensation management, if the solution relies on personnel data.  HRSmart is the authoritative source for VA personnel information data.

Interfacing with VA Profile to access personal contact information, if the solution relies on VA Veteran personal contact information data.  VA Profile is the authoritative source for VA Veteran Personal Contact Data.

Interfacing with VA/Department of Defense (DoD) Identity Repository (VADIR) for determining eligibility for VA benefits under Title 38, if the solution relies on qualifying active duty military service data.  VADIR is the authoritative source for qualifying active duty military service in VA.

Interfacing with VA Systems Inventory (VASI) to access VA systems information, if the solution relies on VA system information. VASI is the authoritative source for VA Information Technology systems.

Interfacing with Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS) to access the Authority to Operate (ATO) status of all VA Information Systems. eMASS contains the official Authority to Operate (ATO) status of all VA Information Systems.



SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER (SSN) REDUCTION



The Contractor solution shall support the Social Security Number (SSN) Fraud Prevention Act (FPA) of 2017 which prohibits the inclusion of SSNs on any document sent by mail.  The Contractor support shall also be performed in accordance with Section 240 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act (CAA) 2018, enacted March 23, 2018, which mandates VA to discontinue using SSNs to identify individuals in all VA information systems as the Primary Identifier.  The Contractor shall ensure that any new IT solution discontinues the use of SSN as the Primary Identifier to replace the SSN with the ICN in all VA information systems for all individuals.  The Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor delivered applications and systems integrate with the VA MPI for identity traits to include the use of the ICN as the Primary Identifier. The Contractor solution may only use a Social Security Number to identify an individual in an information system if and only if the use of such number is required to obtain information VA requires from an information system that is not under the jurisdiction of VA.



SOFTWARE AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS



(If this acquisition is a software product and/or solution acquired as subscription service within an XaaS (Anything as a Service) environment (not via licenses) or this acquisition does not involve any aspect of a software solution or software product at all, this paragraph and Section can be removed entirely from the PWS.  Any questions regarding this language should be addressed to Brandon Storms, Office of Strategic Sourcing, at Brandon.Storms@va.gov or via the VA OSS CECM All Staff (GAL Distribution Group.)



The Contractor shall be responsible for the provision of all software licenses and any associated licensing maintenance required for any development, delivery, integration, operation, and/or maintenance associated with its proposed application(s), software products, software solution, and/or system including, but not limited to, any and all application(s), software and/or software products that comprise, are a part of, or integrate with the Contractor’s proposed application(s), software products, software solution, and/or system for the life of any resulting contract.



SECURITY AND PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS



(Business Associate Agreements (BAA) - Please see “Notes to the Contracting Officer” Section for instructions to determine if a Business Associate Agreement (BAA) is required for this effort.  If it is determined that a BAA is required, please add the following language to this section of the PWS and change the text to black and convert to “No Spacing” style. In addition, please add “VA Directive 6066, “Protected Health Information (PHI) And Business Associate Agreements Management”, September 2, 2014” as the last item in Section 2.0 Applicable Documents of this PWS)



It has been determined that protected health information may be disclosed or accessed and a signed Business Associate Agreement (BAA) shall be required.  The Contractor shall adhere to the requirements set forth within the BAA, referenced in Section D of the contract, and shall comply with VA Directive 6066.



POSITION/TASK RISK DESIGNATION LEVEL(S)



(The Requiring Activity/Program Manager is required to identify the appropriate position risk designation, which will drive the level of background investigation level (Tier 1/Low Risk, Tier 2/Moderate Risk, Tier 4/High Risk) by PWS task in accordance with VA Handbook 0710.  Using the results of the Position Designation Automated Tool (PDT) (also known as PDAT) performed for each Task, complete the table below.  This “Task” Position Risk Designation correlates to individual Contractor personnel background investigation levels depending upon which particular tasks the contractor individual is working.



The PDT Tool is located at the following US Office of Personnel Management Website:  Position Designation Tool (opm.gov))



In accordance with VA Handbook 0710, Personnel Security and Suitability Program, the position sensitivity and the level of background investigation commensurate with the required level of access for the following tasks within the PWS are:



(List PWS Task Section Numbers for this effort (Subsections only as required) in the first column.  Click on the selection box in the appropriate Position Risk Designation column to mark an x to indicate the proper Risk Designation associated with each task based upon the PDT tool results.)



Position Sensitivity and Background Investigation Requirements by Task

Task Number

Tier1 / Low Risk

Tier 2 / Moderate Risk

Tier 4 / High Risk

5.1

☐





5.2







5.3







5.4







5.5







5.6







5.7







5.8







5.9







5.10







5.11







5.12





☐



The Tasks identified above and the resulting Position Sensitivity and Background Investigation requirements identify, in effect, the Background Investigation requirements for Contractor individuals, based upon the tasks the particular Contractor individual will be working.  The submitted Contractor Staff Roster must indicate the required Background Investigation Level for each Contractor individual based upon the tasks the Contractor individual will be working, in accordance with their submitted proposal.



CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS



Contractor Responsibilities: 

The Contractor shall prescreen all personnel requiring access to the computer systems to ensure they maintain the appropriate Background Investigation, and are able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language.

Within 3 business days after award, the Contractor shall provide a roster of Contractor and Subcontractor employees to the COR to begin their background investigations in accordance with the PAL template artifact.  The Contractor Staff Roster shall contain the Contractor’s Full Name, Date of Birth, Place of Birth, individual background investigation level requirement (based upon Section 6.2 Tasks), etc.  The Contractor shall submit full Social Security Numbers either within the Contractor Staff Roster or under separate cover to the COR.  The Contractor Staff Roster shall be updated and provided to VA within 1 day of any changes in employee status, training certification completion status, Background Investigation level status, additions/removal of employees, etc. throughout the Period of Performance.  The Contractor Staff Roster shall remain a historical document indicating all past information and the Contractor shall indicate in the Comment field, employees no longer supporting this contract.  The preferred method to send the Contractor Staff Roster or Social Security Number is by encrypted e-mail. If unable to send encrypted e-mail, other methods which comply with FIPS 140-2 (or its successor) are to encrypt the file, use a secure fax, or use a traceable mail service. (Note that by September 22, 2026, all FIPS 140-2 certificate validations will be placed on the Historical List. See FIPS Transition Effort Timeline for more details:  https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/fips-140-3-transition-effort#schedule)

The Contractor should coordinate with the location of the nearest VA fingerprinting office through the COR.  Only electronic fingerprints are authorized.  The Contractor shall bring their completed Security and Investigations Center (SIC) Fingerprint request form with them (see paragraph d.4. below) when getting fingerprints taken.

The Contractor shall ensure the following required forms are submitted to the COR within 5 days after contract award:

Optional Form 306

Self-Certification of Continuous Service

VA Form 0710 

Completed SIC Fingerprint Request Form

The Contractor personnel shall submit all required information related to their background investigations (completion of the investigation documents (SF85, SF85P, or SF 86) utilizing the Office of Personnel Management’s (OPM) Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) after receiving an email notification from the SIC. 

The Contractor employee shall certify and release the e-QIP document, print, and sign the signature pages, and send them encrypted to the COR for electronic submission to the SIC.  These documents shall be submitted to the COR within 3 business days of receipt of the e-QIP notification email.  (Note:  OPM is moving towards a “click to sign” process.  If click to sign is used, the Contractor employee should notify the COR within 3 business days that documents were signed via e-QIP).

The Contractor shall be responsible for the actions of all personnel provided to work for VA under this contract.  In the event that damages arise from work performed by Contractor provided personnel, under the auspices of this contract, the Contractor shall be responsible for all resources necessary to remedy the incident.

A Contractor may be granted unescorted access to VA facilities and/or access to VA Information Technology resources (network and/or protected data) with a favorably adjudicated Special Agreement Check (SAC), completed training delineated in VA Handbook 6500.6 (Appendix C, Section 4), signed “Contractor Rules of Behavior”, and with a valid, operational Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credential for PIV-only logical access to VA’s network.  A PIV card credential can be issued once your SAC has been favorably adjudicated and your background investigation has been scheduled by OPM.  However, the Contractor will be responsible for the actions of the Contractor personnel they provide to perform work for VA.  The investigative history for Contractor personnel working under this contract must be maintained in the database of OPM.

The Contractor, when notified of an unfavorably adjudicated background investigation on a Contractor employee as determined by the Government, shall withdraw the employee from consideration in working under the contract.

Failure to comply with the Contractor personnel security investigative requirements may result in loss of physical and/or logical access to VA facilities and systems by Contractor and Subcontractor employees and/or termination of the contract for default.

PIV Credential Holders must follow all HSPD-12 policies and procedures as well as use and protect their assigned identity credentials in accordance with VA policies and procedures, displaying their badges at all times, and returning the identity credentials upon termination of their relationship with VA.



Deliverable:

Contractor Staff Roster



METHOD AND DISTRIBUTION OF DELIVERABLES

The Contractor shall deliver documentation in electronic format, unless otherwise directed in Section B of the solicitation/contract.  Acceptable electronic media include:  Microsoft 365 suite, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, MS Access, MS Visio, AutoCAD, and Adobe Postscript Data Format (PDF).



 PERFORMANCE METRICS

The table below defines the Performance Standards and Acceptable Levels of Performance associated with this effort.



(The below standards are generic type standards.  When more specific standards can be applied, they should be included within the appropriate “Performance Objective” category row, as a sub-item Standard under the appropriate “Performance Standard” item) (To format the chart-hit the return key after the main “Performance Standard” that requires a sub-item within that Standard, then hit the “Increase Indent” button in the “Home” “Paragraph” toolbar to automatically indent for the sub-item a., b., c., etc.).

Performance Objective

Performance Standard

Acceptable Levels of Performance

Technical / Quality of Product or Service

Demonstrates understanding of requirements

Efficient and effective in meeting requirements 

Meets technical needs and mission requirements

Provides quality services/products

Incorporates “ease of use” Human Centered Design principles in any software developed.

Satisfactory or higher

Project Milestones and Schedule

Established milestones and project dates are met

Products completed, reviewed, delivered in accordance with the established schedule

Notifies customer in advance of potential problems

Satisfactory or higher

Cost & Staffing

Currency of expertise and staffing levels appropriate to perform tasks required

Personnel possess necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform tasks

Satisfactory or higher

Management

Integration and coordination of all activities to execute effort

Satisfactory or higher



The COR will utilize a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) throughout the life of the contract to ensure that the Contractor is performing the services required by this PWS in an acceptable level of performance.  The Government reserves the right to alter or change the surveillance methods in the QASP at its own discretion. 



FACILITY/RESOURCE PROVISIONS 



The Government will provide office space, telephone service and system access when authorized contract staff work at a Government location as required in order to accomplish the Tasks associated with this PWS.  All procedural guides, reference materials, and program documentation for the project and other Government applications will also be provided on an as-needed basis.



The Contractor shall request other Government documentation deemed pertinent to the work accomplishment directly from the Government officials with whom the Contractor has contact.  The Contractor shall consider the COR as the final source for needed Government documentation when the Contractor fails to secure the documents by other means.  The Contractor is expected to use common knowledge and resourcefulness in securing all other reference materials, standard industry publications, and related materials that are pertinent to the work.



VA may provide remote access to VA specific systems/network in accordance with VA Handbook 6500, which requires the use of a VA approved method to connect external equipment/systems to VA’s network.  Citrix Access Gateway (CAG) and now the Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) (as VA is currently transitioning from CAG to the AVD), are the current and only VA approved methods for remote access users when using or manipulating VA information for official VA Business.  VA permits CAG remote access through approved Personally Owned Equipment (POE) and Other Equipment (OE) provided the equipment meets all applicable 6500 Handbook requirements for POE/OE.  All of the security controls required for Government furnished equipment (GFE) must be utilized in approved POE or OE.   The Contractor shall provide proof to the COR for review and approval that their POE or OE meets the VA Handbook 6500 requirements and VA Handbook 6500.6 Appendix C, herein incorporated as Addendum B, before use. CAG authorized users shall not be permitted to copy, print, or save any VA information accessed via CAG at any time.  VA prohibits remote access to VA’s network from non-North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries.   The exception to this are countries where VA has approved operations established (e.g. Philippines and South Korea).  Exceptions are determined by the COR in coordination with the Information System Security Officer (ISSO) and Privacy Officer (PO).



This remote access may provide access to VA specific software such as Veterans Health Information System and Technology Architecture (VistA), ClearQuest, PAL, Primavera, and Remedy, including appropriate seat management and user licenses, depending upon the level of access granted.  The Contractor shall utilize government-provided software development and test accounts, documents, and requirements repositories, etc. as required for the development, storage, maintenance, and delivery of products within the scope of this effort.  All VA sensitive information shall be protected at all times in accordance with VA Handbook 6500, local security field office System Security Plans (SSP’s) and Authority to Operate (ATO)’s for all systems/LAN’s accessed while performing the tasks detailed in this PWS.  The Contractor shall ensure all work is performed in countries deemed not to pose a significant security risk.  For detailed Security and Privacy Requirements (additional requirements of the contract consolidated into an addendum for easy reference) refer to 

ADDENDUM A – ADDITIONAL VA REQUIREMENTS, CONSOLIDATED and ADDENDUM B - VA INFORMATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY/PRIVACY LANGUAGE.



GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY



The Government has determined that remote access solutions involving Citrix Access Gateway (CAG) have proven to be an unsatisfactory access method to complete the tasks on this specific TO. The Government also understands that Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) is limited to Contractors requiring direct access to the network to access development environments; install, configure and run TRM-approved software and tools (e.g., Oracle, Fortify, Eclipse, SoapUI, WebLogic, LoadRunner, etc.); upload/download/ manipulate code, run scripts, apply patches, etc.; configure and change system settings; check logs, troubleshoot/debug, and test/QA.



Where possible each contract teammate should have a government furnished equipment (GFE) assigned to them to support day-to-day operations. 



The Government will not provide IT accessories including but not limited to Mobile Wi-Fi hotspots/wireless access points, additional or specialized keyboards or mice, laptop bags, extra charging cables, extra Personal Identity Verification card readers, peripheral devices, or additional Random Access Memory (RAM). The Contractor is responsible for providing these types of IT accessories in support of this effort as necessary and any VA installation required for these IT accessories shall be coordinated with the COR.



TECHNICAL KICKOFF MEETING

A technical kickoff meeting shall be held within 10 days after TO award.  The Contractor shall coordinate the date, time, and location (can be virtual) with the CO, as the Post-Award Conference Chairperson, the VA PM, as the Co-Chairperson, the Contract Specialist (CS), and the COR.  The Contractor shall provide a draft agenda to the CO and VA PM at least five calendar days prior to the meeting.  Upon Government approval of a final agenda, the Contractor shall distribute to all meeting attendees.  During the kickoff-meeting, the Contractor shall present, for review and approval by the Government, the details of the intended approach, work plan, and product schedule for each effort in the base award via a Microsoft Office PowerPoint presentation.  At the conclusion of the meeting, the Contractor shall update the presentation with a final slide entitled “Summary Report” which shall include notes on any major issues, agreements, or disagreements discussed during the kickoff meeting and the following statement “As the Post-Award Conference Chairperson, I have reviewed the entirety of this presentation and assert that it is an accurate representation and summary of the discussions held during the Technical Kickoff Meeting for this contract.”  The Contractor shall submit the final updated presentation to the CO for review and signature within three calendar days after the meeting.  The Contractor shall also work with the CS, the Government’s designated note taker, to prepare and distribute the meeting minutes of the kickoff meeting to the CO, COR and all attendees within three calendar days after the meeting.  The Contractor shall obtain concurrence from the CS on the content of the meeting minutes prior to distribution of the document.



ADDENDUM A – ADDITIONAL VA REQUIREMENTS, CONSOLIDATED

Cyber and Information Security Requirements for VA IT Services

The Contractor shall ensure adequate LAN/Internet, data, information, and system security in accordance with VA standard operating procedures and standard PWS language, conditions, laws, and regulations.  The Contractor’s firewall and web server shall meet or exceed VA minimum requirements for security.  All VA data shall be protected behind an approved firewall.  Any security violations or attempted violations shall be reported to the VA Program Manager and VA Information Security Officer as soon as possible.  The Contractor shall follow all applicable VA policies and procedures governing information security, especially those that pertain to assessment and authorization and continuous monitoring.



Contractor supplied equipment, PCs of all types, equipment with hard drives, etc. for contract services must meet all security requirements that apply to Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) and Government Owned Equipment (GOE).  Security Requirements include:  a) VA Approved Encryption Software must be installed on all laptops or mobile devices before being placed into operation, b) Bluetooth equipped devices are prohibited within VA; Bluetooth must be permanently disabled or removed from the device, unless the connection uses FIPS 140-2 (or its successor) validated encryption, c) VA approved anti-virus and firewall software, d) Equipment must meet all VA sanitization requirements and procedures before disposal.  The Contractor shall notify the COR/CO within one hour of disclosure or successful exploits of any vulnerability which can compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the information systems.



Each documented initiative under this contract incorporates VA Handbook 6500.6, “Contract Security,” March 12, 2010 (Appendix C updated April 22, 2024) by reference as though fully set forth therein.  The VA Handbook 6500.6, “Contract Security” shall also be included in every related agreement, contract, or order.  The VA Handbook 6500.6, Appendix C, is included in this document as Addendum B.



Training requirements:  The Contractor shall complete all mandatory training courses on the current VA training site, the VA Talent Management System (TMS) 2.0, and will be tracked therein.  The TMS 2.0 may be accessed at https://www.tms.va.gov/SecureAuth35/.  If you do not have a TMS 2.0 profile, go to 

https://www.tms.va.gov/SecureAuth35/ and click on the “Create New User” link on the TMS 2.0 to gain access.



Contractor employees shall complete a VA Systems Access Agreement if they are provided access privileges as an authorized user of the computer system of VA.

VA Enterprise Architecture Compliance

The applications, supplies, and services furnished under this contract must comply with VA Enterprise Architecture (EA), available at http://www.ea.oit.va.gov/index.asp in force at the time of issuance of this contract, including the Program Management Plan and VA's rules, standards, and guidelines in the Technical Reference Model/Standards Profile (TRMSP).  VA reserves the right to assess contract deliverables for EA compliance prior to acceptance.



VA Internet and Intranet Standards



The Contractor shall adhere to and comply with VA Directive 6102 and VA’s Web Governance if the Contractor’s work includes building and maintaining VA’s digital presence.  This pertains, but is not limited to: websites, social media, creating announcements; collecting information; databases to be accessed, graphics and links to external sites. 



Internet/Intranet Services Directive 6102 is posted at (copy and paste the following URL to browser):  https://www.va.gov/vapubs/viewPublication.asp?Pub_ID=1056&FType=2



VA Web Governance website can be found at Home - VA Web Governance.

Notice of the Federal Accessibility Law Affecting All Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Procurements (Section 508)



(Three standards listed in Section A3.1 below [E205 Electronic Content – (Accessibility Standard -WCAG 2.0 Level A and AA Guidelines), E204 Functional Performance Criteria, and E208 Support Documentation and Services] always apply to the evaluation of ICT, and should remain marked as “x”. The requiring activity should un-mark any of the other remaining standards below [E206 and/or E207] that do not apply to this effort.  The Accessibility Requirements Tool (ART) is a web-based application that will help the requiring activity determine the Section 508 standards that apply to their specific acquisition.  The ART tool is located at Accessibility Requirements Tool (ART).)



On January 18, 2017, the Access Board issued a final rule that updated accessibility requirements covered by Section 508 and refreshed guidelines for telecommunications equipment subject to Section 255 of the Communications Act.  The final rule went into effect on January 18, 2018.  The revisions and updates to the Section 508-based standards and Section 255-based guidelines are intended to ensure that information and communication technology (ICT) covered by the respective statutes is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.



Section 508 – Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Standards



The Section 508 standards established by the Access Board are incorporated into, and made part of all VA orders, solicitations and purchase orders developed to procure ICT.  These standards are found in their entirety at: Revised 508 Standards and 255 Guidelines (access-board.gov).  A single PDF file version of the Revised Section 508 Standards and 255 Guidelines will be supplied upon request, or can be obtained from the Access Board website.  Federal agencies must comply with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. 



The Contractor shall comply with “508 Chapter 2: Scoping Requirements” for all electronic ICT and content delivered under this contract. Specifically, as appropriate for the technology and its functionality, the Contractor shall comply with the technical standards marked here: 



☒	E205 Electronic Content – (Accessibility Standard -WCAG 2.0 Level A and AA Guidelines)

☒	E204 Functional Performance Criteria

☒	E206 Hardware Requirements

☒	E207 Software Requirements

☒	E208 Support Documentation and Services Requirements

Compatibility with Assistive Technology



The standards do not require installation of specific accessibility-related software or attachment of an assistive technology device.  Section 508 requires that ICT be compatible with such software and devices so that ICT can be accessible to and usable by individuals using assistive technology, including but not limited to screen readers, screen magnifiers, and speech recognition software.



Acceptance and Acceptance Testing



Deliverables resulting from this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of the Section 508 Chapter 2:  Scoping Requirements standards identified above.



The Government reserves the right to test for Section 508 Compliance before delivery.  The Contractor shall be able to demonstrate Section 508 Compliance upon delivery.



Physical Security & Safety Requirements:

The Contractor and their personnel shall follow all VA policies, standard operating procedures, applicable laws and regulations while on VA property.  Violations of VA regulations and policies may result in citation and disciplinary measures for persons violating the law.

The Contractor and their personnel shall wear visible identification at all times while they are on the premises.

VA does not provide parking spaces at the work site; the Contractor must obtain parking at the work site if needed.  It is the responsibility of the Contractor to park in the appropriate designated parking areas.  VA will not invalidate or make reimbursement for parking violations of the Contractor under any conditions.

Smoking is prohibited inside/outside any building other than the designated smoking areas.

Possession of weapons is prohibited.

The Contractor shall obtain all necessary licenses and/or permits required to perform the work, with the exception of software licenses that need to be procured from a Contractor or vendor in accordance with the requirements document.  The Contractor shall take all reasonable precautions necessary to protect persons and property from injury or damage during the performance of this contract.

Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure

The Contractor shall follow all VA rules and regulations regarding information security to prevent disclosure of sensitive information to unauthorized individuals or organizations.



The Contractor may have access to Protected Health Information (PHI) and Electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI) that is subject to protection under the regulations issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, as mandated by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA); 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, Subparts A and E, the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information (“Privacy Rule”); and 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, Subparts A and C, the Security Standard (“Security Rule”).  Pursuant to the Privacy and Security Rules, the Contractor must agree in writing to certain mandatory provisions regarding the use and disclosure of PHI and ePHI.  

The Contractor will have access to some privileged and confidential materials of VA.  These printed and electronic documents are for internal use only, are not to be copied or released without permission, and remain the sole property of VA.  Some of these materials are protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (revised by PL 93-5791) and Title 38.  Unauthorized disclosure of Privacy Act or Title 38 covered materials is a criminal offense.

The VA CO will be the sole authorized official to release in writing, any data, draft deliverables, final deliverables, or any other written or printed materials pertaining to this contract. The Contractor shall release no information.  Any request for information relating to this contract presented to the Contractor shall be submitted to the VA CO for response.

Contractor personnel recognize that in the performance of this effort, Contractor personnel may receive or have access to sensitive information, including information provided on a proprietary basis by carriers, equipment manufacturers and other private or public entities.  Contractor personnel agree to safeguard such information and use the information exclusively in the performance of this contract.  Contractor shall follow all VA rules and regulations regarding information security to prevent disclosure of sensitive information to unauthorized individuals or organizations as enumerated in this section and elsewhere in this Contract and its subparts and appendices.

Contractor shall limit access to the minimum number of personnel necessary for contract performance for all information considered sensitive or proprietary in nature.  If the Contractor is uncertain of the sensitivity of any information obtained during the performance this contract, the Contractor has a responsibility to ask the VA CO.

Contractor shall train all of their employees involved in the performance of this contract on their roles and responsibilities for proper handling and nondisclosure of sensitive VA or proprietary information.  Contractor personnel shall not engage in any other action, venture or employment wherein sensitive information shall be used for the profit of any party other than those furnishing the information. The sensitive information transferred, generated, transmitted, or stored herein is for VA benefit and ownership alone. 

Contractor shall maintain physical security at all facilities housing the activities performed under this contract, including any Contractor facilities according to VA-approved guidelines and directives.  The Contractor shall ensure that security procedures are defined and enforced to ensure all personnel who are provided access to patient data must comply with published procedures to protect the privacy and confidentiality of such information as required by VA.

Contractor must adhere to the following:

The use of “thumb drives” or any other medium for transport of information is expressly prohibited.

Controlled access to system and security software and documentation.

Recording, monitoring, and control of passwords and privileges.

All terminated personnel are denied physical and electronic access to all data, program listings, data processing equipment and systems.

VA, as well as any Contractor (or Subcontractor) systems used to support development, provide the capability to cancel immediately all access privileges and authorizations upon employee termination.

Contractor PM and VA PM are informed within twenty-four (24) hours of any employee termination.

Acquisition sensitive information shall be marked "Acquisition Sensitive" and shall be handled as "For Official Use Only (FOUO)".

Contractor does not require access to classified data.

Regulatory standard of conduct governs all personnel directly and indirectly involved in procurements.  All personnel engaged in procurement and related activities shall conduct business in a manner above reproach and, except as authorized by statute or regulation, with complete impartiality and with preferential treatment for none.  The general rule is to strictly avoid any conflict of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of interest in VA/Contractor relationships.

VA Form 0752 shall be completed by all Contractor employees working on this contract and shall be provided to the CO before any work is performed.  In the case that Contractor personnel are replaced in the future, their replacements shall complete VA Form 0752 prior to beginning work.

Information Technology Using Sustainable Products and Services

(Reference: 52.223-23, Sustainable Products and Services. If the requiring activity is procuring the following types of Information Technology Products delivered or furnished for Government use or for Contractor use at a Federally controlled facility (applicable to the work being performed and/or the solution requires) the requiring activity must include the products that fall into the categories of EPEAT, Energy Star, and FEMP within the requirements specifications for the products within this PWS that fall into the respective categories to indicate applicability to this contract.  Please see the GSA Sustainable Facilities Tool website, and the categories within it for guidance and applicability determination of the products/services being acquired. 

If the products/services do not involve the acquisition of products that fall into the EPEAT, Energy Star, or FEMP categories at all, this entire section can be indicated as “Not Applicable” and any references to ecolabels can be removed from the product requirement specifications within the PWS, If after consulting with the Contracting Officer and Contract Specialist, the requiring activity determines there is no EPEAT, Energy Star, or FEMP products that meet VA requirements and a written justification, or an exception, or an  exemption has been provided, this entire section can be indicated as “Not Applicable” and any references to ecolabels can be indicated as N/A within the product requirement specifications within the PWS.

Overarching Website:

The Green Procurement Compilation (GPC) website, Green Procurement Compilation - GSA Sustainable Facilities Tool (sftool.gov), provides a comprehensive list of sustainable Products and Services by Category, to include sustainable acquisition guidance. The Requiring Activity should review the GPC website to help determine which purchasing programs apply to a specific product or service (e.g., within the GPC website, find the “Office Equipment and Electronics” category, for instance, then drill down within the various Product Types in that category (e.g. Combination Units/Multi-Function Devices, Computers, Data Center Storage, etc.,) to determine the related Certification, Designation, and/or Ecolabel requirements for them, and then can also drill down to find various brand and model numbers of products that meet them, as necessary)



The Contractor shall comply with Sections 524 and Sections 525 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007; Section 104 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005; Executive Order 13221, “Energy-Efficient Standby Power Devices,” dated August 2, 2001; and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to provide ENERGY STAR®, Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) designated, and products and services that meet EPA Recommendations of Specifications, Standards, and Ecolabels in effect as of October 2023 (e.g. Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) registered products) in providing information technology products and/or services. The Green Procurement Compilation (GPC) website available at Green Procurement Compilation - GSA Sustainable Facilities Tool (sftool.gov) provides a comprehensive list of sustainable products and services and sustainable acquisition guidance. 



The Contractor shall provide products that meet the definition of sustainable products and services if the products are delivered to the Government; furnished by the Contractor for use by the Government, incorporated into the construction of a public building or public work, or acquired by the Contractor for use in performing services under a Government contract where the cost of the products is a direct cost to a Government contract (versus costs which are normally applied to a contractor's general and administrative expenses or indirect costs).



Specifically, the Contractor shall provide sustainable products under this contract in accordance with FAR 52.223-23.  The applicable products with their associated certification, designation, and/or ecolabel (e.g. Energy Star, FEMP, and/or EPEAT) are identified within the product specifications in this PWS.  The Contractor shall ensure proposed products meet the certification(s) / designation(s) / ecolabel(s) specified at the time of submission of proposals and at the time of award.





ADDENDUM B – VA INFORMATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY/ PRIVACY LANGUAGE 



NOTE: In the event of a conflict, VAAR Security Clauses take precedence over the language in this Addendum B.



APPLICABLE SECTIONS FROM: VA NOTICE 24-12, APRIL 22, 2024, UPDATE TO VA HANDBOOK 6500.6, CONTRACT SECURITY, APPENDIX C VA INFORMATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY/PRIVACY LANGUAGE, FOR INCLUSION INTO CONTRACTS, AS APPROPRIATE



(All Sections in this Addendum B must be reviewed to determine applicability to the requirements of the effort within the PWS.  Any Sections (B1 through B14) which DO NOT apply should be removed from this Addendum B.  Requiring Activities should see the inclusion instructions prior to each Section and remove any full Sections that DO NOT apply (indicating “N/A” underneath the Section Heading(s)).  The language within these Sections MUST NOT be modified, except the removal of instructional text provided prior to each Section) 



GENERAL



This entire section applies to all acquisitions requiring any Information Security and Privacy language. Contractors, contractor personnel, Subcontractors and subcontractor personnel will be subject to the same federal laws, regulations, standards, VA directives and handbooks, as VA personnel regarding information and information system security and privacy. 



VA INFORMATION CUSTODIAL LANGUAGE 



(This entire section applies to all acquisitions requiring any Information Security and Privacy language)

The Government shall receive unlimited rights to data/intellectual property first produced and delivered in the performance of this contract or order (hereinafter “contract”) unless expressly stated otherwise in this contract. This includes all rights to source code and all documentation created in support thereof. The primary clause used to define Government and Contractor data rights is FAR 52.227-14 Rights in Data – General. The primary clause used to define computer software license (not data/intellectual property first produced under this Contractor or order) is FAR 52.227-19, Commercial Computer Software License.



Information made available to the Contractor by VA for the performance or administration of this contract will be used only for the purposes specified in the service agreement, SOW, PWS, PD, and/or contract. The Contractor shall not use VA information in any other manner without prior written approval from a VA Contracting Officer (CO). The primary clause used to define Government and Contractor data rights is FAR 52.227-14 Rights in Data – General. 



VA information will not be co-mingled with any other data on the Contractor’s information systems or media storage systems. The Contractor shall ensure compliance with Federal and VA requirements related to data protection, data encryption, physical data segregation, logical data segregation, classification requirements and media sanitization.



VA reserves the right to conduct scheduled or unscheduled audits, assessments, or investigations of Contractor Information Technology (IT) resources to ensure information security is compliant with Federal and VA requirements. The Contractor shall provide all necessary access to records (including electronic and documentary materials related to the contracts and subcontracts) and support (including access to Contractor and Subcontractor staff associated with the contract) to VA, VA's Office Inspector General (OIG), and/or Government Accountability Office (GAO) staff during periodic control assessments, audits, or investigations.



The Contractor may only use VA information within the terms of the contract and applicable Federal law, regulations, and VA policies. If new Federal information security laws, regulations or VA policies become applicable after execution of the contract, the parties agree to negotiate contract modification and adjustment necessary to implement the new laws, regulations, and/or policies.



The Contractor shall not make copies of VA information except as specifically authorized and necessary to perform the terms of the contract. If copies are made for restoration purposes, after the restoration is complete, the copies shall be destroyed in accordance with VA Directive 6500, VA Cybersecurity Program and VA Information Security Knowledge Service.



If a Veterans Health Administration (VHA) contract is terminated for default or cause with a business associate, the related local Business Associate Agreement (BAA) shall also be terminated and actions taken in accordance with VHA Directive 1605.05, Business Associate Agreements. If there is an executed national BAA associated with the contract, VA will determine what actions are appropriate and notify the contractor.



The Contractor shall store and transmit VA sensitive information in an encrypted form, using VA-approved encryption tools which are, at a minimum, Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules (or its successor) validated and in conformance with VA Information Security Knowledge Service requirements. The Contractor shall transmit VA sensitive information using VA approved Transport Layer Security (TLS) configured with FIPS based cipher suites in conformance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection, Configuration and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations.



The Contractor’s firewall and web services security controls, as applicable, shall meet or exceed VA’s minimum requirements.



Except for uses and disclosures of VA information authorized by this contract for performance of the contract, the Contractor may use and disclose VA information only in two situations: (i) in response to a qualifying order of a court of competent jurisdiction after notification to VA CO (ii) with written approval from the VA CO. The Contractor shall refer all requests for, demands for production of or inquiries about, VA information and information systems to the VA CO for response.



Notwithstanding the provision above, the Contractor shall not release VA records protected by Title 38 U.S.C. § 5705, Confidentiality of medical quality-assurance records and/or Title 38 U.S.C. § 7332, Confidentiality of certain medical records pertaining to drug addiction, sickle cell anemia, alcoholism or alcohol abuse or infection with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). If the Contractor is in receipt of a court order or other requests for the above-mentioned information, the Contractor shall immediately refer such court order or other requests to the VA CO for response.



Information made available to the Contractor by VA for the performance or administration of this contract or information developed by the Contractor in performance or administration of the contract will be protected and secured in accordance with VA Directive 6500 and Identity and Access Management (IAM) Security processes specified in the VA Information Security Knowledge Service.



Any data destruction done on behalf of VA by a Contractor shall be done in accordance with National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) requirements as outlined in VA Directive 6300, Records and Information Management, VA Handbook 6300.1, Records Management Procedures, and applicable VA Records Control Schedules. 



The Contractor shall provide its plan for destruction of all VA data in its possession according to VA Directive 6500 and NIST 800-88, Guidelines for Media Sanitization prior to termination or completion of this contract. If directed by the COR/CO, the Contractor shall return all Federal Records to VA for disposition. 



Any media, such as paper, magnetic tape, magnetic disks, solid state devices or optical discs that is used to store, process, or access VA information that cannot be destroyed shall be returned to VA. The Contractor shall hold the appropriate material until otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) or CO. Items shall be returned securely via VA-approved methods. VA sensitive information must be transmitted utilizing VA-approved encryption tools which are validated under FIPS 140-2 (or its successor) and NIST 800-52. If mailed, the Contractor shall send via a trackable method (USPS, UPS, FedEx, etc.) and immediately provide the COR/CO with the tracking information. Self-certification by the Contractor that the data destruction requirements above have been met shall be sent to the COR/CO within 30 business days of termination of the contract.



All electronic storage media (hard drives, optical disks, CDs, back-up tapes, etc.) used to store, process or access VA information will not be returned to the Contractor at the end of lease, loan, or trade-in. Exceptions to this paragraph will only be granted with the written approval of the VA CO.



ACCESS TO VA INFORMATION AND VA INFORMATION SYSTEMS 



(This section applies when any person requires access to information made available to the Contractor by VA for the performance or administration of this contract or information developed by the Contractor in performance or administration of the contract)

A Contractor/Subcontractor shall request logical (technical) or physical access to VA information and VA information systems for their employees and subcontractors only to the extent necessary to perform the services specified in the solicitation or contract. This includes indirect entities, both affiliate of Contractor/Subcontractor and agent of Contractor/Subcontractor.



Contractors and subcontractors shall sign the VA Information Security Rule of Behavior (ROB) before access is provided to VA information and information systems (see Section 4, Training, below). The ROB contains the minimum user compliance requirements and does not supersede any policies of VA facilities or other agency components which provide higher levels of protection to VA’s information or information systems. Users who require privileged access shall complete the VA elevated privilege access request processes before privileged access is granted.



All Contractors and Subcontractors working with VA information are subject to the same security investigative and clearance requirements as those of VA appointees or employees who have access to the same types of information. The level and process of background security investigations for contractors shall be in accordance with VA Directive and Handbook 0710, Personnel Suitability and Security Program. The Office of Human Resources and Administration/Operations, Security and Preparedness (HRA/OSP) is responsible for these policies and procedures. Contract personnel who require access to classified information or information systems shall have an appropriate security clearance. Verification of a Security Clearance shall be processed through the Special Security Officer located in HRA/OSP. Contractors shall conform to all requirements stated in the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM).



All Contractors and subcontractors shall comply with conditions specified in VAAR 852.204-71(d); Contractor operations required to be in United States. All Contractors and Subcontractors working with VA information must be permanently located within a jurisdiction subject to the law of the United States or its Territories to the maximum extent feasible. If services are proposed to be performed abroad the Contractor must state where all non-U.S. services are provided. The Contractor shall deliver to VA a detailed plan specifically addressing communications, personnel control, data protection and potential legal issues. The plan shall be approved by the COR/CO in writing prior to access being granted. 



The Contractor shall notify the COR/CO in writing immediately (no later than 24 hours) after personnel separation or occurrence of other causes. Causes may include the following:   

Contractor/Subcontractor personnel no longer has a need for access to VA information or VA information systems.



Contractor/Subcontractor personnel are terminated, suspended, or otherwise has their work on a VA project discontinued for any reason.



Contractor believes their own personnel or Subcontractor personnel may pose a threat to their company’s working environment or to any company-owned property. This includes Contractor-owned assets, buildings, confidential data, customers, employees, networks, systems, trade secrets and/or VA data.



Any previously undisclosed changes to Contractor/Subcontractor background history are brought to light, including but not limited to changes to background investigation or employee record.



Contractor/Subcontractor personnel have their authorization to work in the United States revoked.



Agreement by which Contractor provides products and services to VA has either been fulfilled or terminated, such that VA can cut off electronic and/or physical access for Contractor personnel.



In such cases of contract fulfillment, termination, or other causes; the Contractor shall take the necessary measures to immediately revoke access to VA network, property, information, and information systems (logical and physical) by Contractor/Subcontractor personnel. These measures include (but are not limited to): removing and then securing Personal Identity Verification (PIV) badges and PIV – Interoperable (PIV-I) access badges, VA-issued photo badges, credentials for VA facilities and devices, VA-issued laptops, and authentication tokens. Contractors shall notify the appropriate VA COR/CO immediately to initiate access removal.

 

Contractors/Subcontractors who no longer require VA accesses will return VA-issued property to VA. This property includes (but is not limited to): documents, electronic equipment, keys, and parking passes. PIV and PIV-I access badges shall be returned to the nearest VA PIV Badge Issuance Office. Once they have had access to VA information, information systems, networks and VA property in their possessions removed, Contractors shall notify the appropriate VA COR/CO.



TRAINING 



(This entire section applies to all acquisitions which include section 3)

All contractors and subcontractors requiring access to VA information and VA information systems shall successfully complete the following before being granted access to VA information and its systems:



VA Privacy and Information Security Awareness and Rules of Behavior course (Talent Management System (TMS) #10176) initially and annually thereafter.



Sign and acknowledge (electronically through TMS #10176) understanding of and responsibilities for compliance with the Organizational Rules of Behavior, relating to access to VA information and information systems initially and annually thereafter; and



Successfully complete any additional cyber security or privacy training, as required for VA personnel with equivalent information system or information access [to be defined by the VA program official and provided to the VA CO for inclusion in the solicitation document – i.e., any role-based information security training].



The Contractor shall provide to the COR/CO a copy of the training certificates and certification of signing the Organizational Rules of Behavior for each applicable employee within five days of the initiation of the contract and annually thereafter, as required. 



Failure to complete the mandatory annual training is grounds for suspension or termination of all physical or electronic access privileges and removal from work on the contract until such time as the required training is complete.



SECURITY INCIDENT INVESTIGATION 



(This entire section applies to all acquisitions requiring any Information Security and Privacy language)

The Contractor, Subcontractor, their employees, or business associates shall immediately (within one hour) report suspected security / privacy incidents to the VA OIT’s Enterprise Service Desk (ESD) by calling (855) 673-4357 (TTY: 711). The ESD is OIT’s 24/7/365 single point of contact for IT-related issues. After reporting to the ESD, the Contractor, Subcontractor, their employees, or business associates shall, within one hour, provide the COR/CO the incident number received from the ESD.



To the extent known by the Contractor/Subcontractor, the Contractor/Subcontractor's notice to VA shall identify the information involved and the circumstances surrounding the incident, including the following:



The date and time (or approximation of) the Security Incident occurred. 



The names of individuals involved (when applicable).



The physical and logical (if applicable) location of the incident.



Why the Security Incident took place (i.e., catalyst for the failure).



The amount of data belonging to VA believed to have been compromised.



The remediation measures the Contractor is taking to ensure no future incidents of a similar nature.



After the Contractor has provided the initial detailed incident summary to VA, they will continue to provide written updates on any new and relevant circumstances or facts they discover. The Contractor, Subcontractor, and their employes shall fully cooperate with VA or third-party entity performing an independent risk analysis on behalf of VA. Failure to cooperate may be deemed a material breach and grounds for contract termination.



VA IT Contractors shall follow VA Handbook 6500, Risk Management Framework for VA Information Systems VA Information Security Program, and VA Information Security Knowledge Service guidance for implementing an Incident Response Plan or integrating with an existing VA implementation.



In instances of theft or break-in or other criminal activity, the Contractor/Subcontractor must concurrently report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement entity (or entities) of jurisdiction, including the VA OIG, and the VA Office of Security and Law Enforcement. The Contractor, its employees, and its Subcontractors and their employees shall cooperate with VA and any law enforcement authority responsible for the investigation and prosecution of any possible criminal law violation(s) associated with any incident. The Contractor/Subcontractor shall cooperate with VA in any civil litigation to recover VA information, obtain monetary or other compensation from a third party for damages arising from any incident, or obtain injunctive relief against any third party arising from, or related to, the incident.



The Contractor shall comply with VA Handbook 6500.2, Management of Breaches Involving Sensitive Personal Information, which establishes the breach management policies and assigns responsibilities for the oversight, management and reporting procedures associated with managing of breaches.



With respect to unsecured Protected Health Information (PHI), the Contractor is deemed to have discovered a data breach when the Contractor knew or should have known of breach of such information. When a business associate is part of VHA contract, notification to the covered entity (VHA) shall be made in accordance with the executed BAA.



If the Contractor or any of its agents fails to protect VA sensitive personal information or otherwise engages in conduct which results in a data breach involving any VA sensitive personal information the Contractor/Subcontractor processes or maintains under the contract; the Contractor shall pay liquidated damages to the VA as set forth in clause 852.211-76, Liquidated Damages—Reimbursement for Data Breach Costs.



INFORMATION SYSTEM DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT



(This entire section applies to information systems, systems, major applications, minor applications, enclaves, and platform information technologies (to include the subcomponents of each) designed or developed for or on behalf of VA by any non-VA entity)

Information systems designed or developed on behalf of VA at non-VA facilities shall comply with all applicable Federal law, regulations, and VA policies. This includes standards for the protection of electronic Protected Health Information (PHI), outlined in 45 C.F.R. Part 164, Subpart C and information and system security categorization level designations in accordance with FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems and FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information Systems. Baseline security controls shall be implemented commensurate with the FIPS 199 system security categorization (reference VA Handbook 6500 and VA Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) Architecture).



Contracted new developments require creation, testing, evaluation, and authorization in compliance with VA Assessment and Authorization (A&A) processes in VA Handbook 6500 and VA Information Security Knowledge Service to obtain an Authority to Operate (ATO). VA Directive 6517, Risk Management Framework for Cloud Computing Services, provides the security and privacy requirements for cloud environments.



VA IT Contractors, Subcontractors and third-party service providers shall address and/or integrate applicable VA Handbook 6500, VA Handbook 6517, Risk Management Framework for Cloud Computing Services and Information Security Knowledge Service specifications in delivered IT systems/solutions, products and/or services. If systems/solutions, products and/or services do not directly match VA security requirements, the Contractor shall work though the COR/CO to identify the VA organization responsible for governance or resolution. Contractors shall comply with FAR 39.1, specifically the prohibitions referenced.



The Contractor (including producers and resellers) shall comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) M-22-18 and M-23-16 when using third-party software on VA information systems or otherwise affecting the VA information. This includes new software purchases and software renewals for software developed or modified by major version change after the issuance date of M-22-18 (September 14, 2022). The term “software” includes firmware, operating systems, applications and application services (e.g., cloud-based software), as well as products containing software. The Contractor shall provide a self-attestation that secure software development practices are utilized as outlined by Executive Order (EO)14028 and NIST Guidance. A third-party assessment provided by either a certified Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) Third Party Assessor Organization (3PAO) or one approved by the agency will be acceptable in lieu of a software producer's self-attestation.



The Contractor shall ensure all delivered applications, systems and information systems are compliant with Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12 and VA Identity and Access management (IAM) enterprise identity management requirements as set forth in OMB M-19-17, M-05-24, FIPS 201-3, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors (or its successor), M-21-31 and supporting NIST guidance. This applies to Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) product(s) that the Contractor did not develop, all software configurations and all customizations.



The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor delivered applications and systems provide user authentication services compliant with VA Handbook 6500, VA Information Security Knowledge Service, IAM enterprise requirements and NIST 800-63, Digital Identity Guidelines, for direct, assertion-based authentication and/or trust-based authentication, as determined by the design and integration patterns. Direct authentication at a minimum must include Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) based authentication supportive of PIV and/or Common Access Card (CAC), as determined by the business need and compliance with VA Information Security Knowledge Service specifications.



The Contractor shall use VA authorized technical security baseline configurations and certify to the COR that applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems in compliance with VA baselines prior to acceptance or connection into an authorized VA computing environment. If the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) has created a Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) for the technology, the Contractor may configure to comply with that STIG. If VA determines a new or updated VA configuration baseline needs to be created, the Contractor shall provide required technical support to develop the configuration settings. FAR 39.1 requires the population of operating systems and applications includes all listed on the NIST National Checklist Program Checklist Repository,



The standard installation, operation, maintenance, updating and patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from VA approved baseline configuration. Software developed for VA must be compatible with VA enterprise installer services and install to the default “program files” directory with silently install and uninstall. The Contractor shall perform testing of all updates and patching prior to implementation on VA systems.



Applications designed for normal end users will run in the standard user context without elevated system administration privileges.



The Contractor-delivered solutions shall reside on VA approved operating systems. Exceptions to this will only be granted with the written approval of the COR/CO.



The Contractor shall design, develop, and implement security and privacy controls in accordance with the provisions of VA security system development life cycle outlined in NIST 800-37, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy, VA Directive and Handbook 6500, and VA Handbook 6517.



The Contractor shall comply with the Privacy Act of1974 (the Act), FAR 52.224-2 Privacy Act, and VA rules and regulations issued under the Act in the design, development, or operation of any system of records on individuals to accomplish a VA function.



The Contractor shall ensure the security of all procured or developed information systems, systems, major applications, minor applications, enclaves and platform information technologies, including their subcomponents (hereinafter referred to as “Information Systems”) throughout the life of this contract and any extension, warranty, or maintenance periods. This includes security configurations, workarounds, patches, hotfixes, upgrades, replacements and any physical components which may be necessary to remediate all security vulnerabilities published or known to the Contractor anywhere in the information systems (including systems, operating systems, products, hardware, software, applications and firmware). The Contractor shall ensure security fixes do not negatively impact the Information Systems.



When the Contractor is responsible for operations or maintenance of the systems, the Contractor shall apply the security fixes within the timeframe specified by the associated controls on the VA Information Security Knowledge Service. When security fixes involve installing third party patches (such as Microsoft OS patches or Adobe Acrobat), the Contractor shall provide written notice to the VA COR/CO that the patch has been validated as to not affecting the Systems within 10 business days.



INFORMATION SYSTEM HOSTING, OPERATION, MAINTENANCE OR USE 



(This entire section applies to information systems, systems, major applications, minor applications, enclaves, and platform information technologies (cloud and non-cloud) hosted, operated, maintained, or used on behalf of VA at non-VA facilities)

The Contractor shall comply with all Federal laws, regulations, and VA policies for Information systems (cloud and non-cloud) that are hosted, operated, maintained, or used on behalf of VA at non-VA facilities. Security controls for collecting, processing, transmitting, and storing of VA sensitive information, must be in place. The controls will be tested by VA or a VA sanctioned 3PAO and approved by VA prior to hosting, operation, maintenance or use of the information system or systems by or on behalf of VA. This includes conducting compliance risk assessments, security architecture analysis, routine vulnerability scanning, system patching, change management procedures and the completion of an acceptable contingency plan for each system. The Contractor’s security control procedures shall be the same as procedures used to secure VA-operated information systems.



Outsourcing (Contractor facility, equipment, or staff) of systems or network operations, telecommunications services or other managed services require Assessment and Authorization (A&A) of the Contractor’s systems in accordance with VA Handbook 6500 as specified in VA Information Security Knowledge Service. Major changes to the A&A package may require reviewing and updating all the documentation associated with the change. The Contractor’s cloud computing systems shall comply with FedRAMP and VA Directive 6517 requirements. 



The Contractor shall return all electronic storage media (hard drives, optical disks, CDs, back-up tapes, etc.) on non-VA leased or non-VA owned IT equipment used to store, process or access VA information to VA in accordance with A&A package requirements. This applies when the contract is terminated or completed and prior to disposal of media. The Contractor shall provide its plan for destruction of all VA data in its possession according to VA Information Security Knowledge Service requirements and NIST 800-88. The Contractor shall send a self-certification that the data destruction requirements above have been met to the COR/CO within 30 business days of termination of the contract.



All external internet connections to VA network involving VA information must be in accordance with VA Trusted Internet Connection (TIC) Reference Architecture and VA Directive and Handbook 6513, Secure External Connections and reviewed and approved by VA prior to implementation. Government-owned Contractor-operated systems, third party or business partner networks require a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and Interconnection Security Agreements (ISA).



Contractor procedures shall be subject to periodic, announced, or unannounced assessments by VA officials, the OIG or a 3PAO. The physical security aspects associated with Contractor activities are also subject to such assessments. The Contractor shall report, in writing, any deficiencies noted during the above assessment to the VA COR/CO. The Contractor shall use VA’s defined processes to document planned remedial actions that address identified deficiencies in information security policies, procedures, and practices. The Contractor shall correct security deficiencies within the timeframes specified in the VA Information Security Knowledge Service. 



All major information system changes which occur in the production environment shall be reviewed by the VA to determine the impact on privacy and security of the system. Based on the review results, updates to the Authority to Operate (ATO) documentation and parameters may be required to remain in compliance with VA Handbook 6500 and VA Information Security Knowledge Service requirements. 



The Contractor shall conduct an annual privacy and security self-assessment on all information systems and outsourced services as required. Copies of the assessment shall be provided to the COR/CO. The VA/Government reserves the right to conduct assessment using government personnel or a third-party if deemed necessary. The Contractor shall correct or mitigate any weaknesses discovered during the assessment. 



VA prohibits the installation and use of personally owned or Contractor-owned equipment or software on VA information systems. If non-VA owned equipment must be used to fulfill the requirements of a contract, it must be stated in the service agreement, SOW, PWS, PD or contract. All security controls required for government furnished equipment must be utilized in VA approved Other Equipment (OE). Configuration changes to the Contractor OE, must be funded by the owner of the equipment. All remote systems must use a VA-approved antivirus software and a personal (host-based or enclave based) firewall with a VA-approved configuration. The Contractor shall ensure software on OE is kept current with all critical updates and patches. Owners of approved OE are responsible for providing and maintaining the anti-virus software and the firewall on the non-VA owned OE. Approved Contractor OE will be subject to technical inspection at any time.



The Contractor shall notify the COR/CO within one hour of disclosure or successful exploits of any vulnerability which can compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the information systems. The system or effected component(s) need(s) to be isolated from the network. A forensic analysis needs to be conducted jointly with VA. Such issues will be remediated as quickly as practicable, but in no event longer than the timeframe specified by VA Information Security Knowledge Service. If sensitive personal information is compromised reference VA Handbook 6500.2 and Section 5, Security Incident Investigation.



For cases wherein the Contractor discovers material defects or vulnerabilities impacting products and services they provide to VA, the Contractor shall develop and implement policies and procedures for disclosure to VA, as well as remediation. The Contractor shall, within 30 business days of discovery, document a summary of these vulnerabilities or defects. The documentation will include a description of the potential impact of each vulnerability and material defect, compensating security controls, mitigations, recommended corrective actions, root cause analysis and/or workarounds (i.e., monitoring). Should there exist any backdoors in the products or services they provide to VA (referring to methods for bypassing computer authentication), the Contractor shall provide the VA CO/CO written assurance they have permanently remediated these backdoors.



All other vulnerabilities, including those discovered through routine scans or other assessments, will be remediated based on risk, in accordance with the remediation timelines specified by the VA Information Security Knowledge Service and/or the applicable timeframe mandated by Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Binding Operational Directive (BOD) 22-01 and BOD 19-02 for Internet-accessible systems. Exceptions to this paragraph will only be granted with the approval of the COR/CO.



SECURITY AND PRIVACY CONTROLS COMPLIANCE TESTING, ASSESSMENT AND AUDITING



(This entire section applies whenever section 6 or 7 is included)

Should VA request it, the Contractor shall provide a copy of their (corporation’s, sole proprietorship’s, partnership’s, limited liability company (LLC), or other business structure entity’s) policies, procedures, evidence and independent report summaries related to specified cybersecurity frameworks (International Organization for Standardization (ISO), NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), etc.). VA or its third-party/partner designee (if applicable) are further entitled to perform their own audits and security/penetration tests of the Contractor’s IT or systems and controls, to ascertain whether the Contractor is complying with the information security, network or system requirements mandated in the agreement between VA and the Contractor.



Any audits or tests of the Contractor or third-party designees/partner VA elects to carry out will commence within 30 business days of VA notification. Such audits, tests and assessments may include the following: (a): security/penetration tests which both sides agree will not unduly impact Contractor operations; (b): interviews with pertinent stakeholders and practitioners; (c): document review; and (d): technical inspections of networks and systems the Contractor uses to destroy, maintain, receive, retain, or use VA information. 



As part of these audits, tests and assessments, the Contractor shall provide all information requested by VA. This information includes, but is not limited to, the following: equipment lists, network or infrastructure diagrams, relevant policy documents, system logs or details on information systems accessing, transporting, or processing VA data.



The Contractor and at its own expense, shall comply with any recommendations resulting from VA audits, inspections and tests. VA further retains the right to view any related security reports the Contractor has generated as part of its own security assessment. The Contractor shall also notify VA of the existence of any such security reports or other related assessments, upon completion and validation.



VA appointed auditors or other government agency partners may be granted access to such documentation on a need-to-know basis and coordinated through the COR/CO. The Contractor shall comply with recommendations which result from these regulatory assessments on the part of VA regulators and associated government agency partners. 



PRODUCT INTEGRITY, AUTHENTICITY, PROVENANCE, ANTI-COUNTERFEIT AND ANTI-TAMPERING



(This entire section applies when the acquisition involves any product (application, hardware, or software) or when section 6 or 7 is included)

The Contractor shall comply with Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 15 Part 7, “Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services (ICTS) Supply Chain”, which prohibits ICTS Transactions from foreign adversaries. ICTS Transactions are defined as any acquisition, importation, transfer, installation, dealing in or use of any information and communications technology or service, including ongoing activities, such as managed services, data transmission, software updates, repairs or the platforming or data hosting of applications for consumer download.



When contracting terms require the Contractor to procure equipment, the Contractor shall purchase or acquire the equipment from an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or an authorized reseller of the OEM. The Contractor shall attest that equipment procured from an OEM or authorized reseller or distributor are authentic. If procurement is unavailable from an OEM or authorized reseller, the Contractor shall submit in writing, details of the circumstances prohibiting this from happening and procure a product waiver from the VA COR/CO.



All Contractors shall establish, implement, and provide documentation for risk management practices for supply chain delivery of hardware, software (to include patches) and firmware provided under this agreement. Documentation will include chain of custody practices, inventory management program, information protection practices, integrity management program for sub-supplier provided components, and replacement parts requests. The Contractor shall make spare parts available. All Contractor(s) shall specify how digital delivery for procured products, including patches, will be validated and monitored to ensure consistent delivery. The Contractor shall apply encryption technology to protect procured products throughout the delivery process. 



If a Contractor provides software or patches to VA, the Contractor shall publish or provide a hash conforming to the FIPS Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules (FIPS 140-2 or successor).



The Contractor shall provide a software bill of materials (SBOM) for procured (to include licensed products) and consist of a list of components and associated metadata which make up the product. SBOMs must be generated in one of the data formats defined in the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) report “The Minimum Elements for a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).”



Contractors shall use or arrange for the use of trusted channels to ship procured products, such as U.S. registered mail and/or tamper-evident packaging for physical deliveries.



Throughout the delivery process, the Contractor shall demonstrate a capability for detecting unauthorized access (tampering).



The Contractor shall demonstrate chain-of-custody documentation for procured products and require tamper-evident packaging for the delivery of this hardware.



VIRUSES, FIRMWARE, AND MALWARE 



(This entire section applies when the acquisition involves any product (application, hardware, or software) or when section 6 or 7 is included)

The Contractor shall execute due diligence to ensure all provided software and patches, including third-party patches, are free of viruses and/or malware before releasing them to or installing them on VA information systems.



The Contractor warrants it has no knowledge of and did not insert, any malicious virus and/or malware code into any software or patches provided to VA which could potentially harm or disrupt VA information systems. The Contractor shall use due diligence, if supplying third-party software or patches, to ensure the third-party has not inserted any malicious code and/or virus which could damage or disrupt VA information systems. 



The Contractor shall provide or arrange for the provision of technical justification as to why any “false positive” hit has taken place to ensure their code’s supply chain has not been compromised. Justification may be required, but is not limited to, when install files, scripts, firmware, or other Contractor-delivered software solutions (including third-party install files, scripts, firmware, or other software) are flagged as malicious, infected, or suspicious by an anti-virus vendor.



The Contractor shall not upload (intentionally or negligently) any virus, worm, malware or any harmful or malicious content, component and/or corrupted data/source code (hereinafter “virus or other malware”) onto VA computer and information systems and/or networks. If introduced (and this clause is violated), upon written request from the VA CO, the Contractor shall:



Take all necessary action to correct the incident, to include any and all assistance to VA to eliminate the virus or other malware throughout VA’s information networks, computer systems and information systems; and

Use commercially reasonable efforts to restore operational efficiency and remediate damages due to data loss or data integrity damage, if the virus or other malware causes a loss of operational efficiency, data loss, or damage to data integrity.



CRYPTOGRAPHIC REQUIREMENT



(This entire section applies whenever the acquisition includes section 6 or 7 is included)

The Contractor shall document how the cryptographic system supporting the Contractor’s products and/or services protect the confidentiality, data integrity, authentication and non-repudiation of devices and data flows in the underlying system.



The Contractor shall use only approved cryptographic methods as defined in FIPS 140-2 (or its successor) and NIST 800-52 standards when enabling encryption on its products. 



The Contractor shall provide or arrange for the provision of an automated remote key-establishment method which protects the confidentiality and integrity of the cryptographic keys.



The Contractor shall ensure emergency re-keying of all devices can be remotely performed within 30 business days.



The Contractor shall provide or arrange for the provision of a method for updating cryptographic primitives or algorithms.



PATCHING GOVERNANCE



(This entire section applies whenever the acquisition includes section 7 is included)

The Contractor shall provide documentation detailing the patch management, vulnerability management, mitigation and update processes (to include third-party) prior to the connection of electronic devices, assets or equipment to VA’s assets. This documentation will include information regarding the following:



The resources and technical capabilities to sustain the program or process (e.g., how the integrity of a patch is validated by VA); and.



The approach and capability to remediate newly reported zero-day vulnerabilities for Contractor products.



The Contractor shall verify and provide documentation all procured products (including third-party applications, hardware, software, operating systems, and firmware) have appropriate updates and patches installed prior to delivery to VA.



The Contractor shall provide or arrange the provision of appropriate software and firmware updates to remediate newly discovered vulnerabilities or weaknesses for their products and services within 30 days of discovery. Updates to remediate critical or emergent vulnerabilities will be provided within seven business days of discovery. If updates cannot be made available by Contractor within these time periods, the Contractor shall submit mitigations, methods of exploit detection and/or workarounds to the COR/CO prior to the above deadlines.



The Contractor shall provide or arrange for the provision of appropriate hardware, software and/or firmware updates, when those products, including open-source software, are provided to the VA, to remediate newly discovered vulnerabilities or weaknesses. Remediations of products or services provided to the VA’s system environment must be provided within 30 business days of availability from the original supplier and/or patching source. Updates to remediate critical vulnerabilities applicable to the Contractor’s use of the third-party product in its system environment will be provided within seven business days of availability from the original supplier and/or patching source. If applicable third-party updates cannot be integrated, tested and made available by Contractor within these time periods, mitigations and/or workarounds will be provided to the COR/CO before the above deadlines.



SPECIALIZED DEVICES/SYSTEMS (MEDICAL DEVICES, SPECIAL PURPOSE SYSTEMS, RESEARCH SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING) 



(This entire section applies when the acquisition includes one or more Medical Device, Special Purpose System or Research Scientific Computing Device. If appropriate, ensure selected clauses from section 6 or 7 and 8 through 12 are included)

Contractor supplies/delivered Medical Devices, Special Purpose Systems-Operational Technology (SPS-OT) and Research Scientific Computing Devices shall comply with all applicable Federal law, regulations, and VA policies. New developments require creation, testing, evaluation, and authorization in compliance with processes specified on the Specialized Device Cybersecurity Department Enterprise Risk Management (SDCD-ERM) Portal, VA Directive 6550, Pre-Procurement Assessment and Implementation of Medical Devices/Systems, VA Handbook 6500, and the VA Information Security Knowledge Service. Deviations from Federal law, regulations, and VA Policy are identified and documented as part of VA Directive 6550 and/or the VA Enterprise Risk Analysis (ERA) processes for Specialized Devices/Systems processes.   



All Contractors and third-party service providers shall address and/or integrate applicable VA Handbook 6500 and Information Security Knowledge Service specifications in delivered IT systems/solutions, products and/or services. If systems/solutions, products and/or services do not directly match VA security requirements, the Contractor shall work though the COR/CO for governance or resolution.



The Contractor shall certify to the COR/CO that devices/systems that have completed the VA Enterprise Risk Analysis (ERA) process for Specialized Devices/Systems are fully functional and operate correctly as intended. Devices/systems must follow the VA ERA authorized configuration prior to acquisition and connection to the VA computing environment. If VA determines a new VA ERA needs to be created, the Contractor shall provide required technical support to develop the configuration settings. Major changes to a previously approved device/system will require a new ERA.



The Contractor shall comply with all practices documented by the Food Drug and Administration (FDA) Premarket Submission for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices and Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices.



The Contractor shall design devices capable of accepting all applicable security patches with or without the support of the Contractor personnel. If patching can only be completed by the Contractor, the Contractor shall commit the resources needed to patch all applicable devices at all VA locations. If unique patching instructions or packaging is needed, the Contractor shall provide the necessary information in conjunction with the validation/testing of the patch. The Contractor shall apply security patches within 30 business days of the patch release and have a formal tracking process for any security patches not implemented to include explanation when a device cannot be patched.



The Contractor shall provide devices able to install and maintain VA-approved antivirus capabilities with the capability to quarantine files and be updated as needed in response to incidents. Alternatively, a VA-approved whitelisting application may be used when the Contractor cannot install an anti-virus / anti-malware application.



The Contractor shall verify and document all software embedded within the device does not contain any known viruses or malware before delivery to or installation at a VA location.



Devices and other equipment or systems containing media (hard drives, optical disks, solid state, and storage via chips/firmware) with VA sensitive information will be returned to the Contractor with media removed. When the contract requires return of equipment, the options available to the Contractor are the following:



The Contractor shall accept the system without the drive, firmware and solid state.



VA’s initial device purchase includes a spare drive or other replacement media which must be installed in place of the original drive at time of turn-in; or



Due to the highly specialized and sometimes proprietary hardware and software associated with the device, if it is not possible for VA to retain the hard drive, firmware, and solid state, then:



The equipment Contractor shall have an existing BAA if the device being traded in has sensitive information stored on it and hard drive(s) from the system are being returned physically intact.



Any fixed hard drive, Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS), Programmable Read-Only Memory (PROM), solid state and firmware on the device must be non-destructively sanitized to the greatest extent possible without negatively impacting system operation. Selective clearing down to patient data folder level is recommended using VA approved and validated overwriting technologies/methods/tools. Applicable media sanitization specifications need to be pre-approved and described in the solicitation, contract, or order.



DATA CENTER PROVISIONS 



(This entire section applies whenever the acquisition requires an interconnection to/from the VA network to/from a non-VA location)

The Contractor shall ensure the VA network is accessed by in accordance with VA Directive 6500 and IAM security processes specified in the VA Information Security Knowledge Service. 



The Contractor shall ensure network infrastructure and data availability in accordance with VA information system business continuity procedures specified in the VA Information Security Knowledge Service. 



The Contractor shall ensure any connections to the internet or other external networks for information systems occur through managed interfaces utilizing VA approved boundary protection devices (e.g., internet proxies, gateways, routers, firewalls, guards or encrypted tunnels). 



The Contractor shall encrypt all traffic across the segment of the Wide Area Network (WAN) it manages and no unencrypted Out of Band (OOB) Internet Protocol (IP) traffic will traverse the network.



The Contractor shall ensure tunnel endpoints are routable addresses at each VA operating site.



The Contractor shall secure access from Local Area Networks (LANs) at co-located sites in accordance with VA TIC Reference Architecture, VA Directive and Handbook 6513, and MOU/ISA process specified in the VA Information Security Knowledge Service.

