San Bernardino City Unified School District
777 North "F" Street
San Bernardino, CA 92410
RFP No. 26-22
Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
SAN BERNARDINO CITY
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
PROPOSAL DUE DATE
Friday, March 20, 2026 AT 11:00 AM
SUBMIT ELECTRONIC RESPONSE TO
SAN BERNARDINO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/sbcusd
Notice Inviting Proposals
RFP No. 26-22
Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the San Bernardino City Unified School District of San Bernardino County, State of
California, acting through its Governing Board, hereafter referred to as the "District", is soliciting electronic
proposal submittals through its OpenGov e-Procurement web portal in response to RFP No. 26-22, Data
Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution. Vendors who are desirous of securing a copy of the RFP
documents may do so by logging into the District's website at https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/sbcusd.
RFP responses must conform and be responsive in accordance with the RFP Documents posted through the District's
"OpenGov" website portal. Proposals must be submitted electronically up to but not later than FRIDAY, MARCH
20, 2026 AT 11:00 A.M. (PST)
Contract award is contingent upon availability of funds. Local, Minority and Disabled Veterans Businesses are
specifically encouraged to respond. The District reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals, and to
accept or reject any item, to withdraw a line item or entire RFP, and to waive any irregularities or informalities in
the RFP document(s). The District may award any, all, or none of this RFP.
By: Jeanette Martinez Castaneda, Buyer
1st Publication:
February 27, 2026
2ⁿᵈ Publication:
March 6, 2026
Request for Clarification:
March 13, 2026 at 11:00 a.m.
Virtual RFP Opening:
March 20, 2026 at 11:00 a.m.
https://meet.google.com/ktp-aqdn-yyg
Note: Late entry will not be permitted.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 2 of 36
Table of Contents
Notice Inviting Proposals
2
Table of Contents
3
General RFP Instructions And Conditions
4
1.0 Introduction
4
2.0 Instructions to Proposer
4
3.0 Submission of Proposals
4
4.0 Contents of the RFP
5
5.0 Proposal Evaluation Criteria and Schedule of Events:
7
6.0 Supplemental Terms and Conditions
8
7.0 Insurance
11
8.0 Piggybackable RFP
11
9.0 Contractual Agreement
11
Sample Agreement
12
Scope of Work
14
Fee Proposal Form
19
Qualification Statement
20
Noncollusion Affidavit
23
Vendor Application
24
W-9 Form
25
Equal Opportunity Certification
26
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility And Voluntary Exclusion
27
Workers' Compensation Certification
28
Federal Funding Contract Compliance Form
29
Iran Contacting Act Certification
33
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
34
Conflict of Interest and Disclosures
36
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 3 of 36
General RFP Instructions and Conditions
1.0 Introduction
PURPOSE: San Bernardino City Unified School District's (SBCUSD) Accountability & Educational Technology and
Informational Technology Departments are looking for a hosted solution of an integrated data warehouse and business
intelligence (BI)/analytics platform. The data warehouse should store and integrate data from various sources. The BI
platform should allow SBCUSD to create and disseminate reports and dashboards. The goal of the data warehouse and
BI system is to increase capacity to use timely, accurate, and relevant data to monitor and drive decision making at all
levels of organization in an efficient manner.
ABOUT THE DISTRICT: San Bernardino City Unified School District (SBCUSD) is the ninth-largest public school District in
California, with an average enrollment of about 44,000 students. Established in 1964, the San Bernardino City Unified
School District (SBCUSD) is the ninth-largest school district in California, serving a diverse student population across
105 square miles in the heart of San Bernardino County. The District includes 74 schools, spanning Transitional
Kindergarten (TK) through Adult Education, and serves communities ranging from small rural mountain and foothill
areas to larger suburban neighborhoods in the valley. SBCUSD operates 49 elementary schools, 11 middle schools
(including one K-8), 9 high schools, 2 special schools, 2 special education schools, and 1 adult school, as well as a
continuation school, community day school, independent study schools, charter schools, and preschool programs. (For
additional information on the District, log onto http://sbcusd.com).
2.0 Instructions to Proposer
2.1
SUBMITTING PROPOSALS: All interested bidders are invited to submit a Proposal in accordance with the terms and
conditions stated in the RFP documents. Proposals can be submitted up to, but not later than March 20, 2026 at 11:00
a.m. A copy of the RFP documents can be downloaded by accessing the District's website at
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/sbcusd. Bidders are advised that the District reserves the right to amend
the RFP documents at any time. Addenda providing clarification or corrections will be done formally through posting
on the OpenGov Procurement website. Bidders are required to register for an account via the District's e-Procurement
Portal hosted by OpenGov Procurement.
2.2
QUESTIONS: Once proposer has completed registration, you may receive addenda notifications by clicking the "Follow"
button on this project. All questions or requests for clarification regarding this proposal are to be submitted via the
OpenGov Question/Answer tab. Questions and/or requests for clarifications must be submitted no later than the date
and time indicated in the Notice Inviting Requests-For-Proposals to be considered. Addenda providing clarification or
corrections will be done formally through posting on OpenGov. All followers of this RFP will receive email notifications
when questions/answers are posted or when addenda/notifications are uploaded. Ultimately, it is the sole
responsibility of each proposer to periodically check the website for any addenda postings. Contact with any other
individual, other than a member of the District's Purchasing Department may be grounds for rejection. Any RFP may
be withdrawn by the Proposer by selecting the "Unsubmit Proposal" button at any time prior to the scheduled closing
time for receipt of bids. Proposers are advised that the District reserves the right to amend the RFP documents at any
time.
If a proposer discovers any ambiguity or error such as a conflict, discrepancy, omission, or other errors in the RFP
documents, proposer shall immediately notify the District via the OpenGov Question/Answer tab. Please note,
Questions and/or requests for clarifications must be submitted no later than March 13, 2026 by 11:00 a.m.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 4 of 36
3.0 Submission of Proposals
3.1 PROPOSAL DUE DATE AND OPENING - The RFP must be received on or before the time indicated in the Notice Inviting
Proposals. System will not allow bids to be uploaded after the closing date and time. A Virtual RFP opening will be
conducted on the RFP due date through the link provided in the Notice Inviting Proposals - Late entry will not be
permitted. Any proposal may be withdrawn by the bidder by selecting the "Unsubmit Proposal" button at anytime
prior to the scheduled closing time for receipt of proposals.
This RFP requires sealed pricing until after the evaluation process is completed; therefore, the public opening will
disclose only the names of the proposers/firms. Note: After the public bid opening, the contents of any proposal shall
not be disclosed or made available to competing entities during the evaluation process.
It is the Vendor's sole responsibility to ensure they have given themselves enough time to upload all required
documents and answer all questions prior to the closing date and time of the RFP. Should the time expire prior to the
completion of the submittal, the bid will not be accepted.
Should issues arise during the online submittal, it is imperative that the Vendor utilize the blue chat icon on the lower
right-hand side of the OpenGov website. The chat icon is located on every page visited on the OpenGov website. Do
not wait until the last minute to submit or ask for assistance as staff may not be readily available.
3.2 RFP PROPOSAL FORM: By submitting an online proposal, vendor warrants that the individual is duly authorized to sign
or enter into a contract on behalf of the proposer.
4.0 Contents of the RFP
4.1 PROPOSAL FORMAT: Each proposal should address the following items in the order listed below. Be sure to include
information on all items requested in the RFP document. The RFP response is to demonstrate the qualifications,
competence and capacity of the firm as well as specify the approach in conformity with all federal, state, District, and
local requirements:
(A) Cover Letter/Letter of Interest - Include a cover letter stating the eligibility of the respondent to respond to this
RFP, a brief description of the respondent and statement of interest.
(B) Description of Company - Include a description of qualifications. Include information regarding the size of the
company, location, nature of work performed, and years in this particular business. The respondent shall provide an
affirmative statement that it is independent of the District as defined by generally accepted standards.
(C) Personnel and Staffing Resources - Submit resume(s) or profiles of the individual(s) who will be assigned to provide
the requested services, including qualifications and recent related experience providing similar services. An
affirmative statement should be included that the company and all assigned key professional staff are currently and
properly certified or licensed to perform the services and hold all proper business or other required licenses.
(D) Capacity and Methodology - Describe the approach to provide services and fulfill the requirements and
expectations of the District and this RFP. Use this section to address the ability of your company to undertake and
accomplish the required scope of service while meeting all deadlines. Provide a startup action plan.
(E) Experience and References - Description of past performances of similar service and related experience. The
Respondent is required to submit a list of other school districts or county offices of education for which services
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 5 of 36
have been performed in the last five (5) years. Please identify districts that are of the approximate size of the District.
The list shall include the (1) number of students, (2) date and services were performed, (3) client name, (4) client
contact name and email.
If applicable, specify any services that may have been provided for the District previously. State the scope and size
of each service, and the beginning and ending dates of service.
(F) Qualification Statement - Each Respondent must completely answer the questions in this document. Questions
may be answered in other sections of the RFP if clearly and conspicuously identified on the questionnaire.
(G) Fiscal Stability - The District may request a copy of the most recent audited financial statement attesting to the
financial stability of the respondent during the evaluation stage of the RFP process. If requested, the document must
be submitted and received within 5 days of the request in a sealed envelope addressed to: Attention Jeanette
Martinez-Castaneda, Buyer, at 777 N F Street, San Bernardino, CA 92410, with the Proposer's Company Name, RFP
Number, RFP Title, and marked "Financial Statement" clearly indicated on the outside of the envelope. Alternatively,
the financial document may be submitted via email to jeanette.martinezcastaneda@sbcusd.k12.ca.us as instructed
by the District. The District treats all financial statements as proprietary and confidential.
(H) Customer Service Commitment - Describe the respondent's philosophy and approach for providing outstanding
customer service.
(I)
Exceptions - Exceptions taken to District Terms & Conditions, including software license agreements, contract
modifications, deletions or additions vendor would like District to consider shall be included here. If proposer does
not agree with any terms or conditions of this RFP document, the District's contract, or any District Terms and
Conditions, the proposer must present its exceptions with its proposal. If no concerns are expressed by the
proposer, the District shall consider that all terms and conditions of the RFP and District contract are accepted.
The District reserves the right to negotiate and/or reject proposals based upon alternate T&C's offered and/or any
exceptions taken to any District contract terms and/or District RFP Terms and Conditions. Note: The District under
no obligation to accept, review or negotiate any exceptions taken to District RFP documents.
(J)
Certifications and Attachments - Complete and return the attached certifications and attachments to this RFP.
In addition to the above, at a minimum, the following documents will be required of the successful
Respondent(s):
A. Qualification Statement, submit with proposal
B. Non-Collusion Affidavit, submit with proposal
C. District's Vendor Application, submit with proposal
D. W-9 Tax Form, submit with proposal
E. Equal Opportunity Certification, submit with proposal
F. Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility & Voluntary Exclusion, submit with proposal
G. Workers Compensation Certification, submit with proposal
H. Education Department of General Administration Regulation (EDGAR), submit with proposal
I. Iran Contracting Act Certification, submit with proposal
J. FERPA, submit with proposal, submit with proposal
K. Conflict of Interest and Disclosures, submit with proposal
L. Signed District agreement form (sample attached) upon award
M. Vendor Response Table
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 6 of 36
5.0 Proposal Evaluation Criteria and Schedule of Events:
5.1
PROPOSAL ACCEPTANCE: Failure to submit the information requested may result in the District's request for
prompt submission of missing information and/or giving a lower evaluation score on the proposal. The District
reserves the right to reject proposals which are incomplete or lack material information. Issuance of this RFP and
receipt of proposals does not commit the District to make an award. The District reserves the right to postpone
opening, to accept or reject any or all proposals received, to waive any informality or irregularity in the proposal
response, to negotiate with other than the highest ranked proposer, or to cancel all or any part of this RFP, all in
the best interest of the District. Any award will be contingent upon available and approved funding. No proposal
may be withdrawn for a period of sixty (60) days after stated due date of proposal response. No proposal or
proposal modification received after the due date will be considered.
5.2
PROPOSAL EVALUATION: All Proposals will be evaluated for completeness and the proposer's ability to meet or
exceed RFP specifications. A contract, if awarded, will be pursuant to California Public Contract Code 20118.2,
which permits the District to competitively negotiate such contracts and to consider more than simply price in
awarding the contract. In this case, price will be one of the most heavily weighted criteria; though the District will
also consider the prospective Vendor's ability to meet minimum technical specifications for the services as
described in the RFP, as well as other relevant factors.
5.3
PROPOSAL EVALUATION CRITERIA: RFPs will be evaluated as follows in the below table.
During the evaluation period, the District reserves the right to conduct on District site, telephone, or email
conversations with a Proposer to clarify proposals, competitively negotiate, ask questions, or obtain additional
information.
The criteria listed below are not necessarily an all-inclusive list. While price will be the most heavily weighted
criteria, the order of appearance is not intended to indicate relevance of importance. Once a proposer has been
found responsive to the RFP requirements, a determination of award will be made based on the following
considerations.
Criteria
Weight
Cost of Services (including annual renewal, hosting fees, data
integration fees, software maintenance fees, support and
40
training, all other fees)
Responses to Scope of Work and Supplemental Questionnaire
25
Firm's expertise, background, personnel qualifications, and
experience with School Districts similar in size and scope to
15
SBCUSD
Training and Support
10
Proposal Format, Organization, and Clarity
5
Acceptance of District T&C's
5
Total Points
100
5.4 SCHEDULE OF EVENTS:
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 7 of 36
Closing Date for RFP Questions
Friday, March 13, 2026, at 11:00 a.m.
Proposal Due Date
Friday, March 20, 2026 at 11:00 a.m.
Anticipated Presentation Date (if conducted)
April 2026
Anticipated Notice of Intent to Award
April 2026
Anticipated Board Approval/Contract Award
May 2026
Anticipated Start Date
July 2026
5.5 BID PROTEST: Vendors may protest a contract award if he/she believes that the award was inconsistent with Board
policy or the Bid/RFP specifications or was not in compliance with law. The protest must be filed in writing with the
Superintendent or designee within five working days after receipt of notification of the contract award. The bidder
shall submit all documents supporting or justifying the protest. A bidder's failure to timely file a protest shall constitute
a waiver of his/her right to protest the award of the contract.
The bidder may appeal the Superintendent or designee's decision to the Board. The Superintendent or designee shall
provide reasonable notice to the bidder of the time for Board consideration of the contract award. The Board's decision
shall be final.
5.6 ORAL PRESENTAION: The District may, at its sole discretion, shortlist selected bidders for virtual presentations. The
proposer should be prepared to present such information in order that the Evaluation Committee can effectively and
objectively analyze all system, materials and documentation proposed to implement a viable and successful Data
Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution. Firms invited for oral presentations must be represented by
the individual who will be the prime contact person to the District, and other key project team members. A Proposer's
inability to respond to any request for clarification and/or oral presentation may be cause for disqualification. Upon
conclusion of the proposal evaluation process, a Notification of Intent to Award will be sent to the firm selected. Award
shall be made to the qualified bidder whose proposal is determined to be most advantageous and provides the best
value at the most economical cost to the District.
6.0 Supplemental Terms and Conditions
6.1
ACCEPTANCE: The District reserves the right to reject any and all RFP responses; to waive any irregularities or
informalities in any proposal; and to accept or reject any items in the proposal.
6.2
RFP MODIFICATIONS/QUALIFICATIONS BY RESPONDENT: The full and complete RFP response requirements shall
remain constant regardless of any other products and services, or approach to the solution the respondent may
offer in the RFP response. An RFP response to any specific item of this RFP with terms such as "negotiable", "will
negotiate" or similar, may be considered non-responsive to that specific item. Partial responses, changes,
additions, deletions, or exceptions to this RFP by the Respondent, which are not specifically called for in the RFP
documents, may result in the District's rejection of the RFP response.
6.3
FAILURE TO PROVIDE REQUESTED INFORMATION: Failure of a Respondent to provide any required documentation
or information requested in this package may result in rejection of their RFP.
6.4
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS: All Respondents are required to comply with and be bound by all applicable provisions of
laws of the State of California whether or not required herein.
6.5
AWARD OF RFP: This RFP implies no obligation to purchase services. The District reserves the right, and may award
any, all or none of this RFP.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 8 of 36
6.6
COMMUNICATION OF AWARD: RFP awards made by the Board of Education shall not become binding upon the
District until communicated in writing to the successful Respondent by the Purchasing Department.
6.7
ALTERNATE SOURCES: Nothing in this agreement shall prohibit the District from acquiring the same type or
equivalent services from other sources, when deemed to be in the best interest of the District.
6.8
SPECIFICATIONS: The District shall be the sole judge as to whether the Respondent's proposal meets the District's
requirements and specifications.
6.9
FUNDS: Purchase is contingent upon availability of funds.
6.10
TERM: The initial term of the Agreement shall be for one (1) year from the Board of Education approval but may
be extended for four (4) additional successive one-year extensions, at the sole discretion of the District, not to
exceed an accumulative total of five (5) years. Pricing shall be held firm for the duration of the contract except for
inflationary adjustment, which may be approved by the District at its sole discretion annually.
6.11 PAYMENT AND INVOICING: The Respondent(s) will make no separate invoicing and will receive no separate
payment for activities performed outside of the Agreement and Scope of Work which shall be in accordance with
the specifications called out in this RFP.
6.12
EXPERIENCE: The Respondent, by submitting a RFP, indicates that they have the ability, fitness and expertise to
fulfill the terms and conditions of the RFP, and has been successful in services associated with this RFP for a period
of at least (5) years.
6.13
DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION & EXCLUSION: The successful Respondent(s) shall certify that the firm is presently not
debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in
the transaction by any Federal Department Agency. It further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include
this clause without modification in all lower tier transactions, solicitations, proposals, contracts and subcontracts.
Where the Respondent or any lower tier participant is unable to certify to this statement, it shall attach an
explanation to this proposal. (see Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary
Exclusion). See page 27
6.14
COVENANT AGAINST GRATUITIES: The respondent warrants that no gratuities (in the form of entertainment, gifts,
or otherwise) were offered or given by the respondent or any other agent or representative of the respondent, to
any officer or employee of the District with a view toward securing the resultant contract or securing favorable
treatment with respect to any determinations concerning the award of the RFP. For breach or violation of this
provision, the District shall have the right to terminate any negotiation or the resultant contract, either in whole
or in part, and any lose or damage sustained by the District in procuring on the open market any items which
respondent agreed to supply shall be borne and paid for by the respondent. The rights and remedies of the District
provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by the
law.
6.15
CONTRACT TERMINATION: Default - In addition to any other rights of termination or any other remedies available
at law or in equity, including but not limited to, liquidated damages, if District determines that a default or violation
under the contract has occurred, it shall provide written notice to the Vendor describing the default or violation
and it shall require the default or violation to be cured within five (5) business days. If the default or violation is
not cured within that five (5) day period, the District may exercise its right to terminate the contract. In the event
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 9 of 36
of a termination, District shall send a notice of termination in any manner acceptable as described in Notices, to
the Vendor declaring the contract to be terminated as of the date provided in the notice.
Unsatisfactory Performance - If, at any time during the performance of the contract it is determined that Vendor's
Services are unsatisfactory, the District shall provide written notice to the Vendor describing the unsatisfactory
performance and a reasonable cure period. If the performance remains unsatisfactory at the end of the cure
period, the District shall provide notice to the Vendor and the District shall have the right to terminate the contract
as may be stated in the notice. In the event of a termination, the District is obligated to make payments only for
services rendered up to the notice of termination.
Convenience - In addition to any other termination conditions, the District may terminate this contract, in whole
or in part, for any reason whatsoever. The District will give 30 days' advance written notice.
6.16 PAYMENT AND REMEDIES: At the time of termination, payment of invoices for products and services already
received and approved in accordance with the RFP documents shall be the responsibility of the District. The District
shall not be responsible for any loss of profits resulting from the cancellation. There shall be no early termination
fee charged to the District.
6.17
RE-PROCUREMENT CLAUSE (In Lieu of Performance Bond): In the event the Contractor fails to perform in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including but not limited to failure to deliver goods
or services as specified, the District reserves the right to procure the required goods or services from an alternate
source. The Contractor shall be responsible for any cost difference incurred by the District due to such re-
procurement, including administrative and operational expenses. The District may deduct such costs from any
amounts due to the Contractor or pursue reimbursement through other legal means.
6.18 EXAMINATION AND AUDIT: The District reserves the right, at all times, to inspect and of the work, including
reviewing the Bidder's records as well as observing work performance to determine the Bidder's conformance with
the agreement.
Any failure of the District during the progress of work to discover work not in accordance with the agreement shall
not be deemed an acceptance thereof, nor a waiver of defects therein; and no payments by the District shall be
construed to be an acceptance of work which is not strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement.
6.19
AUDIT RECORDS: The Bidder shall keep, in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, books,
statements, accounts and records pertaining to this Agreement. The vendor will preserve the books, statements,
accounts and records for a period of four (4) years after the last day of the transition period following the expiration
or termination of this Agreement.
6.20 ACCESS: For the purposes of such audits, the Bidder shall provide to the District (and its designees) access to the
part of any facility at which the Bidder is providing the services, to vendor personnel and to data and records
relating to the services. The Bidder shall provide reasonable assistance during the audit and will cooperate
reasonably with the District in connection with audit functions and with regard to examinations by regulatory
authorities. The District's auditors shall comply with the Bidder's reasonable security measures.
6.21
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS: In connection with the furnishings of services or performance of work under this RFP,
the respondent agrees to comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act, Equal Opportunity Employment Act, and all
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 10 of 36
other applicable Federal and State laws, regulations, and executive orders to the extent that the same may be
applicable.
7.0 INSURANCE: Throughout the life of the Contract, Vendor shall pay for and maintain in full force and affect the
following policies of insurance:
7.1
COMMERCIAL OR COMPREHENSIVE AND GENERAL LIABILITY: insurance which shall include Contractual Liability,
Products and Completed Operations coverages, Bodily Injury and Property Damage (including Fire Legal Liability)
Liability insurance with combined single limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, and if written on an
Aggregate basis, $2,000,000 Aggregate limit (CG 0001).
7.2
COMMERCIAL (BUSINESS) AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY: insurance, endorsed for "any auto" with combined single limits
of liability of not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence. (CA 0001)
7.3
PROFESSIONAL ERRORS AND OMISSIONS: not less than $1,000,000 per Claim/$2,000,000 Aggregate. (5-year
discovery and reporting tail period coverage). Certificate of Insurance only required.
7.4
CYBER SECURITY AND PRIVACY LIABILITY: Liability arising from the theft, dissemination and/or use of confidential
information, including but not limited to, personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information
(PHI), security codes, access codes, passwords, etc. Cyber Security andPrivacy Liability insurance should
include: Notification costs, crisis management costs, and regulatory fines, and defense costs; Network security
liability arising from unauthorized access to, use of or tampering with computer systems, including hacker attacks
with combines single limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, and if written on an aggregate basis,
$2,000,000 aggregate limit (CG 0001).
7.5
WORKER'S COMPENSATION: as required under the California Labor Code, and Employers Liability Insurance with
limits not less than $1,000,000 per accident/injury/disease.
All insurances shall be with a California Admitted insurer, with a rating of A or better, as rated by the current edition
of Best's Key Rating Guide, published by A.M. Best Company, Oldwick, New Jersey 08858 and authorized to conduct
business in the State of California.
8.0 PIGGYBACKABLE RFP: In accordance with Public Contract Code Section $20118, other school districts in the State of
California may purchase under the same terms and conditions of this bid if it is determined to be in their best interest.
If so, the San Bernardino City Unified School District waives its right and prefers that each school district work directly
with the successful bidder. Sales to the other district will be made at the discretion of the successful bidder.
9.0 CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT: The successful proposer will be required to enter into an agreement substantially similar
in format to the below sample agreement.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 11 of 36
SAMPLE
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, dated the day of
, 2026, in the County of San Bernardino,
State of California, by and between the San Bernardino City Unified School District, hereinafter referred
to as "District" and
, hereinafter referred to as Vendor".
WITNESSETH:
That the District and Vendor, for the consideration stated herein, agree as follows:
1. Contract:
The complete contract includes all RFP documents, all of the contract documents, including the Notice
Inviting Bids, RFP No. 26-22, all proposal addenda, the submitted proposal, all negotiation documents,
any resultant purchase order(s), District's Terms and Conditions, Special Conditions if any, Specifications,
if any, this Agreement, and all modifications and amendments thereto, and by this reference are
incorporated herein. The contract documents are complementary, and what is called for by anyone shall
be as binding as if called for by all.
2. Scope of Services:
Vendor shall perform within the time set in the Notice to Proceed, everything required to be performed,
and shall provide and furnish all the personnel, labor, materials, necessary tools, equipment, and services,
as described in all the documents of RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform
Solution shall be provided and performed in strict accordance with all such specifications and provisions
described in Section 1 above. The Vendor shall be liable to the District for any damages arising as a result
of a failure to fully comply with this obligation.
3. Compensation:
District shall pay to the Vendor, as full consideration for the faithful performance of the contract, subject
to any additions or deductions as provided in the contract documents, the total estimated sum of
($XX,XXX.XX) Dollars & Cents (Reference Fee Schedule/Costs (Appendix "), said sum being the total
amount agreed upon resulting from Vendor proposal dated
2026;
4. Contract Term:
The term of the contract is
and shall continue through
.
The District reserves the right to extend or cancel in accordance with the terms stipulated in the RFP
documents and as stated on page 9 section 6.15 of this RFP.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 12 of 36
5.
Notices
All notices, demands, and documents required pursuant to the terms hereof shall be in writing and
shall be delivered in person or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, with postage
prepaid, at the addresses set forth below for each party: Notices shall be effective as of the date of receipt
by the addressee. The address to which notices, demands and documents may be given by either party
may be changed by written notice given in accordance with the notice provisions of this section.
District:
Vendor:
San Bernardino City Unified School District
Attn: Jeanette Martinez Castaneda
777 N F Street
San Bernardino, CA 92410
6. Entire Agreement
The complete contract as set forth in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement constitutes the entire
Agreement of the parties. No other agreements, oral or written, pertaining to the work to be
performed under this contract, exists between the parties. This contract can be modified only by an
agreement in writing, signed by both parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed.
District: SBCUSD
Firm:
By:
By:
Title:
Title:
Date:
, 2026
Date:
, 2026
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 13 of 36
SCOPE OF WORK
San Bernardino City Unified School District's (SBCUSD) Accountability & Educational Technology and
Informational Technology Departments are looking for a hosted solution of an integrated data warehouse and
business intelligence (BI)/analytics platform. The data warehouse should store and integrate data from various
sources. The BI platform should allow SBCUSD to create and disseminate reports and dashboards. The goal of
the data warehouse and BI system is to increase capacity to use timely, accurate, and relevant data to monitor
and drive decision making at all levels of organization in an efficient manner.
The District's current environment utilizes PowerSchool Analytics and Insights (formerly Unified Insights) as
its data warehouse and analytics platform. The implementation includes District specific customizations,
completed historical data migration, and automated nightly data refreshes to support ongoing reporting and
analysis. The platform integrates with the District's Student Information System and other core data sources.
As the District's data needs continue to evolve, the District seeks to enhance and expand its data warehouse
capabilities by advancing toward a more flexible and scalable architecture that incorporates data lake
functionality. The desired future state includes the ability to ingest, store, and manage an expanded range of data
sources, including structured and semi-structured data, beyond current core operational systems.
The District is particularly interested in solutions that enable analysts and authorized users to develop dashboards
and analytic products both within the vendor-provided analytics environment and through third-party business
intelligence platforms. The solution should support interoperability, reusable datasets, and efficient data
exploration while minimizing duplicative or parallel data pipelines.
The District intends to use the data warehouse and BI platform to support District initiatives, including but not
limited to:
Program Evaluation / Intervention Effectiveness
District Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) monitoring
Department Progress Monitoring - including student group level (e.g. English Learners, Long
Term English Learners, Special Education, Foster Youth, Homeless, 504s)
Progress Monitoring of student data at the class, school, and District level
Early Warning System
MTSS/RTI
College and Career Readiness and Success
This system will provide user-friendly access to different types of data to various end users
for the purpose of monitoring, tracking and reporting on student achievement.
The solution shall enable the District to design and manage intervention programs, provide
dashboards that evaluate the effectiveness of interventions, and support the creation of
individualized student plans for continuous progress monitoring.
The system should be able to accept all State mandated test data (ELPAC and CAASPP), as
well as locally designed Standards-Aligned Assessment and formative assessment data.
The system should also provide data lake capabilities that enable SBCUSD to securely upload,
store, and manage ad hoc datasets from various sources, supporting both structured and
unstructured data formats.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 14 of 36
Indicate if your firm can meet or exceed the minimum Required (R) or Desired (D) features listed below.
If yes, please provide this information as part of Section 9.
If no, please indicate which feature (s) your firm is unable to provide.
R/D
Platform Required / Desired Features
Yes
No
A. Solution Requirements
R
1. 100% Hosted integrated data warehouse and business intelligence (BI)/analytics
platform.
R
2. Shall be compliant with all federal, state, and SBCUSD policies, laws, and
regulations.
R
3. Shall include sufficient licenses for implementation District-wide.
R
4. Shall include all future software upgrades and enhancements.
5. Ability to track student data, including assessment, academic performance,
R
demographics, attendance, program participation, behavior, interventions and
student plans.
R
6. Ability to track staff data, including attendance, assignment and demographics
R
7. Easily import state mandated assessment results (e.g., CAASPP, ELPAC)
R
8. Easily import other student assessments unique to secondary schools (e.g., AP,
IB)
R
9. Easily import other student assessments unique to SBCUSD (e.g., Standards-
Aligned Assessments, formative assessments)
10. Ability to track and report National Student Clearinghouse (NSC) data to
R
monitor postsecondary enrollment and completion outcomes.
11. Describe if the system uses any third-party software. If so, please describe what
R
level of support will be provided and what expertise does the Offeror have with
third party software.
R
12. Support for both Windows and Mac.
R
13. Compatible with District server hardware (HP).
R
14. Compatibility with mobile device platforms.
15. Ability for technical staff to connect and query the data warehouse using
R
industry-standard tools and query languages
B. Security
R
1. Multi-level security systems for transmission, storage and reporting of data and
end-user access.
R
2. Catastrophic event recovery contingency plan - (turnaround < 1 week)
D
3. User authentication via Active Directory.
R
4. Ability to monitor and download (preferably into CSV) application usage data
from end-users of the system such as user traffic to BI views.
R
5. Role-based security options that can give SBCUSD maximum flexibility and
effectiveness in assigning roles to its users and administrators of the system.
6. Possibility of data scrambling or visualizations with 'made up' data so as to
D
conceal confidential or sensitive data but still allowing users to use for training or
other purposes.
C. Data Quality
R
1. Data quality checks to ensure accuracy of data in the system.
2. Report out data quality issues in a manner that SBCUSD personnel can easily
identify and correct record-level errors in source data. The system shall have the
R
ability to segregate data quality issues by specific business owner groups (such as
schools or departments) to have them addressed. The Offeror shall describe the
method that will be used to communicate data quality issues to business owners
(for example, push email notifications, daily BI reports, or other methods).
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 15 of 36
R/D
Platform Required / Desired Features
Yes
No
R
3. Ability to query data and extract the data that is queried.
4. Provide information on the matching process employed for student data to
R
ensure accuracy of student-level data being combined from various sources in the
data warehouse.
5. Implement and maintain data quality checks unique to SBCUSD. Such data
D
quality checks may be between two or more data elements. The Offeror shall
describe the process and tools they will employ to implement and maintain such
data quality rules including the strategy used to collect and verify business rules.
D. Business Intelligence Reporting
1. Reporting as student, classroom, teacher, site and District levels; with the ability
R
to show aggregated metrics and drill- down to student or row-level detail by
security access level.
R
2. Capacity for report and data exports to other formats (e.g., Excel, Access)
R
3. Reports in PDF format for printing with minimal customization from end- users.
R
4. Ability to create both static and dynamic reporting.
D
5. Customizable reporting tool that supports complex queries (e.g., Boolean Logic).
R
6. Capacity to create a variety of visualization types including, but not limited to,
bar charts, line charts, Venn diagrams, scatter plots, and crosstabs.
R
7. Allow District staff to generate and disseminate customized reports, data
dashboards for authenticated users and for the public.
R
8. Ability to show time-based or longitudinal measures.
D
9. Ability to perform GIS mapping.
10. Ability to incorporate interactive features into dashboards to allow end-users to
R
explore data. For example, filters, highlights, dropdowns, single or multi-select,
etc.
R
11. Ability for users to download data that is used to create an aggregate measure
into a CSV format.
12. Ability for users to generate custom groupings of students for targeted analysis.
R
The solution shall have the ability for these custom groupings to be unique to the
end-user or shared amongst end-users.
R
13. Ability to embed reports or dashboard into District website.
D
14. Ability to integrate or embed other BI dashboards that have currently been
designed by the District.
D
15. Ability to include instructions or help documents to guide user interaction with
reports and dashboards.
D
16. Allows for branding customization by the District in the form of logos, fonts,
color schemes.
D
17. Pre-built reports or metrics that can be readily used by the District following data
validation.
D
18. Analytics capabilities available with the solution, including advanced analytics
such as predictive analytics and inferential statistics.
R
19. Ability to incorporate language translation of reports or dashboards.
R
20. Ability to perform natural language querying, allowing users to generate
visualizations and reports by typing plain-language questions.
E. Implementation and Training / Professional Development
R
1. Provide training on designing, building, and troubleshooting metrics compiled
from the data warehouse.
R
2. Provide training to identified users on how to build visualizations, reports, and
dashboards and how to optimize performance of such visualizations.
R
3. Provide training to identified users on how to find and correct data quality issues
reported by the system.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 16 of 36
R/D
Platform Required / Desired Features
Yes
No
R
4. Vendor-supplied technical support, staff/vendor-staffed help-desk.
R
5. Quality, online help documents and job-aids.
D
6. The BI system shall be capable of embedding training materials for end users to
easily access on a recurring basis for refreshers or new employees.
D
7. Vendor-provide workshops for selected staff (e.g., training-of-trainers).
8. Training to end users on how to use visualizations, reports and dashboards on the
R
BI system. Training materials would be subject to review and approval by
SBCUSD.
R
9. Ability to export/store data in a variety of regional databases.
R
10. Capacity for the system to be hosted by District, if deemed desirable by
SBCUSD.
R
11. Capacity for District to access the database with backend data analysis tools.
12. Provide an implementation plan and project schedule showing critical
R
milestones. The project schedule should identify tasks, beginning and end dates,
and responsible parties.
D
13. During implementation, provide weekly progress reports that summarizes
actions, issues, resolutions, deadlines, or tasks at risk.
R
14. Clearly define SBCUSD and Offeror responsibilities for implementation and on-
going maintenance.
D
15. Testing environment available to client for testing.
16. Email protocols or other notification features are available to communicate issues
D
about system, performance, health, data issues, quality issues to either users,
stakeholders, or business owners, groups, etc.
R
17. Reports or other abilities in monitoring system performance, such as resources
and performance as well as information about processes, jobs, etc.
18. Plan to address issues of fault tolerance, how the proposed architecture meets the
demand for a high availability system, replication strategy used in production,
R
and options - - if any - for on-site replication of the system. The plan shall also
provide information regarding stress testing and load balancing of the system to
ensure the high availability needs are met and the Offeror's estimated recovery
time for multiple scenarios.
F. Data Integration/User Interface
R
1. Capacity for interface/integration with District Student Information System,
AERIES
R
2. Ability to integrate with data sources shown below in Table 1. Student Data
Sources
D
3. Integration with SBCUSD's District-Adopted curricula.
4. Ability to integrate data sources that may be unique to SBCUSD beyond those
R
previously listed. The District seeks a solution for data integration that would
require minimal conforming by SBCUSD from existing data layouts.
R
5. Nightly student roster refreshing.
R
6. On-demand and real-time demographic data refreshing.
R
7. Ability to provide client with scripts for data integration with AERIES.
R
8. Update data integration regularly to match state and national data layouts
without intervention from SBCUSD
R
9. Intuitive, simple and user-friendly tools for end users.
R
10. Access to both static and dynamic reporting.
R
11. Provide updates that are easy to access and install.
R
12. Import 5 years of historical data.
R
13. Provide documentation on all stored procedures and functions include its
purpose, parameter(s), and sample showing how it is used.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 17 of 36
R/D
Platform Required / Desired Features
Yes
No
R
14. Provide on-going technical support for development of new metrics, integration
of new data sources, and performance of the system.
Table 1: Student Data Sources
Aeries Student Information
CAASPP
California Physical
National Student
System c
Fitness Test
Clearinghouse
Illuminate Data and
ELPAC
Survey Data (such
California College
Assessmentᶜ
as: Panorama
Guidance Initiative
Education, other
(CCGI)
internally
developed surveys)
SEIS Special Education
NWEA
District Adopted
California Student Aid
Information System
MAP
Curriculum Digital
Commission (CSAC)
Components
itsLearning Learning
Edmentu
College Board Suite:
Google Suite (Sheets,
Management System
m
(AP, PSAT 8/9, PSAT
Forms, Classroom, etc.)
NMSQT, SAT)
Renaissance: STAR
IXL
California
Apex Learning
Reading, Math and
Department of
MyOn
Education Research
Files
DIBELSᶜ
IB
C. Critical Data Source
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 18 of 36
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Fee Proposal Form
Note: All pricing tables should be completed online through the OpenGov e-Procurement portal. Please see
Pricing Table Section 8 in OpenGov.
*If offering a substitute/or equal, please upload price and spec sheet (vendor submission Item No. 4).
**If offering optional Services/Items, please upload price and spec sheet (vendor submission Item No. 5)
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 19 of 36
Qualification Statement
To supplement request for information called out in other sections of this RFP document, please include responses to
the following specific questions. For uniformity purposes among proposers, suggested sections where information can
be included in a firm's proposal has been indicated below.
If the same information is provided elsewhere in your proposal and qualification materials, clearly identify such in the
following questions.
SECTION A - SPECIFIC REQUEST FOR INFORMATION
1. Background and Organization
Describe your company's overall experience and qualifications, especially in the public sector, and
include the following information:
Indicate how long your organization has offered Vendor services and how many clients you currently service in the
public sector.
Indicate whether your organization has been known by any other names within the last five years.
List any characteristics of your organization that you feel distinguishes you from other Data Management and Business
Intelligence Platform Solution.
2. Staff Qualifications
Provide the names and qualifications of key personnel who would be assigned to manage and/or work directly with this
account, in the roles/areas listed below. Please include education and professional work experience.
Project Leader
Implementation Team
Customer Service Key Contact
3. Vendor Administrative Facility
Indicate the physical location of the facility that will be responsible for hosting and administering this contract.
4. Customer Service Staff
Briefly discuss your proposed approach to providing customer service to the District and include the following
information:
Indicate your response time for customer service inquiries.
Indicate the number of employees you anticipate will be necessary to provide customer service for this account.
Describe customer service hours of operation and location of customer service facility.
5. Periodic / Adhoc Reports
Describe reports that can be produced and indicate in what format these reports can be produced (i.e. Excel, PDF, etc.)
6. Disaster Recovery Program
Describe your disaster recovery program should data maintained in your system be adversely affected by
earthquake, fire, flood, or another catastrophic event.
7. Security Compliance
Describe systems, policies, and procedures in place to ensure compliance with Privacy and Security rules.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 20 of 36
8. Methodology -Implementation Plan
Describe the transition plan, including timeline.
9. Warranty
Describe in detail product, software and service warranty.
SECTION B - Please answer the following:
(1) Have you or any of your principals been in litigation or arbitration of any kind relating to similar services during the
prior five (5) years.
If yes, provide the name of the public agency and briefly detail the dispute:
(2) Have you ever had a services agreement or contract terminated for convenience or default in the prior five (5) years.
If yes, provide details including the name of the other party:
(3) Is your firm, owners, and/or any principal or manager involved in or is your firm aware of any pending litigation
regarding professional misconduct, bad faith, discrimination, or sexual harassment. If yes, provide details:
(4) Is your firm, owners, and/or any principals or manager involved in or aware of any pending disciplinary action
and/or investigation conducted by any local, state or federal agency. If yes, provide details:
(5) Have you ever had any direct or indirect business, financial or other connection with. Any official, employee or
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 21 of 36
Vendor of the District. Elaborate and discuss any potential, apparent actual conflict of interest:
SECTION C - REFERENCES
(1) List at least three clients for whom you have provided similar services.
Name
Address
Phone Number and Email
I certify and declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true
and correct.
Executed this
day of
, 2026 at
, City, County
, State of
.
(Notarization not required)
Company Name:
Signature:
Title:
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 22 of 36
Noncollusion Affidavit
(Public Contract Code Section 7106)
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
) SS.
COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO
)
, being first duly sworn, deposes
and says that he or she is of
, the party making
the foregoing proposal; that the proposal is not made in the interest of, or on behalf of, any undisclosed
person, partnership, company, association, organization, or corporation; that the proposal is genuine and
not collusive or sham; that the bidder has not directly or indirectly induced or solicited any other bidder to
put in a false or sham proposal, and has not directly or indirectly colluded, conspired, connived, or agreed
with any bidder or anyone else to put in a sham proposal, or that anyone shall refrain from bidding; that the
bidder has not in any manner, directly or indirectly, sought by agreement, communication, or conference
with anyone to fix the price of the bidder or any other bidder, or to fix any overhead, profit, or cost element
of the price, or of that of any other bidder, or to secure any advantage against the public body awarding the
contract of anyone interested in the proposed contract; that all statements contained in the proposal are
true; and, further, that the bidder has not, directly or indirectly, submitted his or her price or any breakdown
thereof, or the contents thereof, or divulged information or data relative thereto, or paid, and will not pay,
any fee to any corporation, partnership, company association, organization, bid depository, or to any
member or agent thereof to effectuate a collusive or sham proposal.
(Signature)
(Typed Name)
State of California
County of
*Notarization not required
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 23 of 36
Vendor Application
San Bernardino City Unified School District
Purchasing Department
777 N. "F" Street, San Bernardino, CA 92410
Business Name:
*Business License Number:
Expiration Date:
Representative Name:
Title
Business Address:
Number of years in business:
Email address:
Business Telephone Number:
Fax Number:
Products or Services Provided:
Comments:
List of References Where Your Company Provided Products/Services: (Preferably other school districts)
Other Schools or Business
Contact
Phone
Dates of Service
Products/Service
Name/Address
1.
2.
3.
"By signing below, I certify under penalty of perjury that the information provided is true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I understand it is the
vendor's responsibility to update the above information as needed. I further agree that as a vendor of the District this company will conform to all Federal,
State, County and City laws, ordinances, codes and regulations covering the products, work or services provided, including but not limited to, obtaining a *San
Bernardino City business license as required by the San Bernardino City Clerk's Office. I understand that it is the vendor's total responsibility to determine
specific details of such requirements and warrant that all work performed, or provided, totally conforms to such legal requirements. I understand the
submission of this application does not guarantee that this company will be used as a vendor for the District or requested to quote on any or all requirements.
I understand it is the vendor's responsibility to follow up and request the opportunity to quote. I understand the District reserves the right to use, any, or all
vendors for the submission of quotes. Formal bids are advertised in The Sun newspaper's legal ads."
Authorized Vendor Representative Signature
Date
Name
Title
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 24 of 36
W-9 Form
W-9
Request for Taxpayer
Form
Give Form to the
(Rev. October 2018)
Identification Number and Certification
requester. Do not
Department of the Treasury
send to the IRS.
Internal Revenue Service
Go to www.irs.gov/FormW9 for instructions and the latest information.
1 Name (as shown on your Income tax return). Name Is required on this line; do not leave this line blank.
2 Business name/disregarded entity name, If different from above
3 Check appropriate box for federal tax classification of the person whose name Is entered on line 1. Check only one of the
4 Exemptions (codes apply only to
following seven boxes.
certain entities, not individuals; see
Instructions on page 3):
See Specific Instructions on page 3.
Individual/sole proprietor or
C Corporation
S Corporation
Partnership
Trust/estate
single-member LLC
Exempt payee code (If any)
Print or type.
Limited liability company. Enter the tax classification (C=C corporation, S-S corporation, P=Partnership)
Note: Check the appropriate box In the line above for the tax classification of the single-member owner. Do not check
Exemption from FATCA reporting
LLC If the LLC Is classified as a single-member LLC that Is disregarded from the owner unless the owner of the LLC Is
another LLC that Is not disregarded from the owner for U.S. federal tax purposes. Otherwise, a single-member LLC that
code (If any)
Is disregarded from the owner should check the appropriate box for the tax classification of Its owner.
Other (see Instructions)
(Applier to accounts maintained outside the us.)
5 Address (number, street, and apt. or suite no.) See Instructions.
Requester's name and address (optional)
6 City, state, and ZIP code
7 List account number(s) here (optional)
Part I
Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
Enter your TIN in the appropriate box. The TIN provided must match the name given on line 1 to avoid
Social security number
backup withholding. For individuals, this is generally your social security number (SSN). However, for a
resident alien, sole proprietor, or disregarded entity, see the instructions for Part I, later. For other
-
-
entities, it is your employer identification number (EIN). If you do not have a number, see How to get a
TIN, later.
or
Note: If the account is in more than one name, see the instructions for line 1. Also see What Name and
Employer Identification number
Number To Give the Requester for guidelines on whose number to enter.
-
Part II
Certification
Under penalties of perjury, I certify that:
1. The number shown on this form is my correct taxpayer identification number (or I am waiting for a number to bei issued to me); and
2. I am not subject to backup withholding because: (a) I am exempt from backup withholding, or (b) I have not been notified by the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) that I am subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends, or (c) the IRS has notified me that I am
no longer subject to backup withholding; and
3. I am a U.S. citizen or other U.S. person (defined below); and
4. The FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that | am exempt from FATCA reporting is correct.
Certification instructions. You must cross out item 2 above if you have been notified by the IRS that you are currently subject to backup withholding because
you have failed to report all interest and dividends on your tax return. For real estate transactions, item 2 does not apply. For mortgage interest paid,
acquisition or abandonment of secured property, cancellation of debt, contributions to an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), and generally, payments
other than interest and dividends, you are not required to sign the certification, but you must provide your correct TIN. See the instructions for Part II, later.
Sign
Signature of
Here
U.S. person
Date
General Instructions
Form 1099-DIV (dividends, including those from stocks or mutual
funds)
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise
Form 1099-MISC (various types of income, prizes, awards, or gross
noted.
proceeds)
Future developments. For the latest information about developments
Form 1099-B (stock or mutual fund sales and certain other
related to Form W-9 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted
transactions by brokers)
after they were published, go to www.irs.gov/FormW9.
Form 1099-S (proceeds from real estate transactions)
Purpose of Form
Form 1099-K (merchant card and third party network transactions)
An individual or entity (Form W-9 requester) who is required to file an
Form 1098 (home mortgage interest), 1098-E (student loan interest),
information return with the IRS must obtain your correct taxpayer
1098-T (tuition)
identification number (TIN) which may be your social security number
Form 1099-C (canceled debt)
(SSN), individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), adoption
taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or employer identification number
Form 1099-A (acquisition or abandonment of secured property)
(EIN), to report on an information return the amount paid to you, or other
Use Form W-9 only if you are a U.S. person (including a resident
amount reportable on an information return. Examples of information
alien), to provide your correct TIN.
returns include, but are not limited to, the following.
If you do not return Form W-9 to the requester with a TIN, you might
Form 1099-INT (interest earned or paid)
be subject to backup withholding. See What is backup withholding,
later.
Cat. No. 10231X
Form
W-9
(Rev. 10-2018)
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 25 of 36
Equal Opportunity Certification
San Bernardino City Unified School District
777 N. "F" Street
San Bernardino, CA 92410
(909) 381-1126
Company
Address
City
State
Zip
Telephone
Fax
Email
Number of employees
Please check one of the following categories. This company is:
Minority Owned
Woman Owned
Disadvantaged
Disabled Veteran Owned
None of the Other Categories
Please check and complete below. This company is:
Independently Owned and Operated:
An Affiliate of
Parent Company
A Subsidiary of
Address
A Division of
"By signing below, I certify that we are an Equal Opportunity Employer and have made a good faith effort to improve
Minority, Women and Disabled Veteran employment.
Signature
Printed Name
Title
Date
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 26 of 36
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension,
Ineligibility And Voluntary Exclusion
FAR Subpart 9.4-Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
I am aware of and hereby certify that neither
nor its principals are presently
Name of Proposer
debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment its principals are presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment,
declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by any Federal department or agency. I
further agree that I will include this clause without modification in all lower tier transactions, solicitations, proposals,
contracts, and subcontracts. Where the bidder/offer or/contractor or any lower participant is unable to certify to this
statement, it shall attach an explanation to this solicitation proposal.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been duly executed by the Principal of the above-named bidder on the
day of
20
for the purposes of submission of this RFP.
(Corporate Seal)
By
Signature
Typed or Printed Name
Title
Date
As the awardee under this RFP, I hereby certify that the above certification remains valid as of the date of contract award,
specifically, as of the
day of
20
for the purposes of award of this contract.
(Corporate Seal)
By
Signature
Typed or Printed Name
Title
Date
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 27 of 36
Workers' Compensation Certification
Labor Code Section 3700:
"Every employer except the State shall secure the payment of compensation in one or more of
the following ways:
1. By being insured against liability to pay compensation in one or more insurers duly authorized to write
compensation insurance in this State.
2. By securing from the Director of Industrial Relations a certificate of consent to self-insure, which may be
given upon furnishing proof satisfactory to the Director of Industrial Relations of ability to self-insure and
to pay any compensation that may become due to his employees."
I am aware of the provisions of Section 3700 of the Labor Code which require every employer to
be insured against liability for Workers' Compensation to undertake self-insurance in accordance
with the provisions of that Code, and I will comply with such provisions before commencing the
performance of this Contract.
Principal
By
Typed or Printed Name
Title
Date
(In accordance with Article 5 (commencing at Section 1860), Chapter 1, Part 7, Division 2 of the
Labor Code, the above certificate must be signed and filed with the awarding body prior to
performing any work under this contract.
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 28 of 36
Federal Funding Contract Compliance Form
The following provisions are required and apply when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School
District for any contract resulting from this procurement process. San Bernardino City Unified School District is the sub
grantee or sub recipient by definition.
In addition to other provisions required by the federal agency or non-Federal entity, all contracts made by the non-Federal
entityunder the Federal award must contain provisions covering the following, as applicable.
BREACH OF CONTRACT BY EITHER PARTIES
a) Contracts for more than the simplified acquisition threshold currently set at $250,000 which is the inflation adjusted amount
determined by the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council and the Defense Acquisition Regulations Council (Councils) as
authorized by 41 U.S.C. 1908, must address administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors
violate or breach contract terms, and provide such sanctions and penalties as appropriate.
Pursuant to Federal Rules (A) above, when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District, the District
reserves all rights and privileges under the applicable laws and regulations with respect to this procurement in the eventof breach
of contract by either party.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
TERMINATION FOR CAUSE OR FOR CONVENIENCE
b) Termination for cause or for convenience by the grantee or sub grantee including the manner by which it willbe affected
and the basis for settlement. (All contracts in excess of $10,000)
Pursuant to Federal Rules (B) above, when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District, the District
reserves all rights to immediately terminate any agreement in excess of $10,000 resulting from this procurement process in the
event of a breach or default of the agreement by Vendor, in the event vendors fails to: (1) meet schedules, deadlines, and/or
delivery dates within the time specified in the procurement solicitation, contract, and/or a purchase order; (2) make any payments
owed; or (3) otherwise perform in accordance with the contract and/or the procurement solicitation. San Bernardino City Unified
School District also reserves the right to terminate the contract immediately, with written notice to vendor, for convenience, if San
Bernardino City Unified School District believes, in its sole discretion that it is in the best interest of San Bernardino City Unified
School District to do so. The vendor will be compensated for work performed and accepted and goods accepted by San Bernardino
City Unified School District as of the termination date if the contract is terminated for convenienceof San Bernardino City Unified
School District. Any award under this procurement process is not exclusive and San Bernardino City Unified School District
reserves the right to purchase goods and services from other vendors when it is in the best interest San Bernardino City Unified
School District.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 29 of 36
RIGHTS TO INVENTIONS MADE UNDER A CONTRACT AGREEMENT
c)
Rights to Inventions Made Under a Contract Agreement. If the Federal award meets the definition of "funding
agreement" under 37 CFR $401.2(a) and the recipient or sub recipient wishes to enter into a contract with a small
business firm or nonprofit organization regarding the substitution of parties, assignment or performance of experimental,
developmental, or research work under that "funding agreement, "; the recipient or sub recipient must comply with the
requirements of 37 CFR Part 401, "Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under
Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements," and any implementing regulations issued by the awarding
agency.
Pursuant to Federal Rule (C) above, when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District, the vendor
certifies that during the term of an award for all contracts by San Bernardino City Unified School District resulting from this
procurement process, the vendor agrees to comply with all applicable requirements as referenced in Federal Rule (C) above.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
CLEAN AIR ACT (42 U.S.C.7401-7671q.)
d)
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251-1387), as
amended - Contracts and sub grants of amounts in excess of $250,000 must contain a provision that requires the non-
Federal award to agree to comply with all applicable standards, orders or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251-1387). Violations
must be reported to the Federal awarding agency and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Pursuant to Federal Rule (D) above, when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District, the vendor
certifies that during the term of an award for all contracts by San Bernardino City Unified School District resulting from this
procurement process, the vendor agrees to comply with all applicable requirements as referenced in Federal Rule (D) above.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
e)
Debarment and Suspension (Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) - A contract award (see 2 CFR 180.220) must not
be made to parties listed on the government wide exclusions in the System for Award Management (SAM), in accordance
with the OMB guidelines at 2 CFR 180 that implement Executive Orders 12549 (3 CFR part 1986 Comp., p. 189) and
12689 (3 CFR part 1989 Comp., p.235), "Debarment and Suspension". SAM exclusions contain the names of parties
debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded by agencies, as well as parties declared ineligible under statutory or
regulatory authority other than Executive Order 12549.
Pursuant to Federal Rule (E) above, when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District, the vendor
certifies that during the term of an award for all contracts by San Bernardino City Unified School District resulting from this
procurement process, the vendor certifies that neither it nor its principals is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for
debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation by any federal department or agency.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 30 of 36
BYRD ANTI-LOBBYING AMENDMENT (31 U.S.C. 1352)
f)
Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352) - Contractors that apply or bid for an award exceeding $100,000
must file the required certification. Each tier certified to the tier above that it will not and has not used Federal
appropriated funds to pay any person or organization for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee
of any agency, a member of Congress, officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in
connection with obtaining any Federal contract, grant or any other award covered by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Each tier must
also disclose any lobbying with non-Federal funds that take place in connection with obtaining any Federal award. Such
disclosures are forwarded from tier to tier up to the non-Federal award.
Pursuant to Federal Rule (F) above, when federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District, the vendor
certifies that during the term and after the awarded term of an award for all contracts by San Bernardino City Unified School
District resulting from this procurement process, the vendor certifies that it is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the
Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352). The undersigned further certifies that:
1.
No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid for on behalf of the undersigned, to any
person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding
of a Federal contract, the making of a Federal grant, the making of a Federal loan, the entering into a cooperative
agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant,
loan, or cooperative agreement.
2.
If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing
or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee
of congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal grant or cooperative
agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Stand Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report
Lobbying", in accordance with its instructions.
3.
The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for
all covered sub-awards exceeding $100,000 in Federal funds to all appropriate tiers and that all sub recipients
shall certify and disclose accordingly.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
RECORD RETENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS PAID FOR
WITH FEDERAL FUNDS - 2 CFR §
When federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District for any contract resulting from this procurement
process, the vendor certifies that it will comply with the record retention requirements detailed in 2 CFR § 200.333. The vendor
further certifies that vendor will retain all records as required by 2 CFR § 200.333 for a period of three years after grantees or sub
grantees submit final expenditure reports or quarterly or annual financial reports, as applicable, and all other pending matters are
closed.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 31 of 36
CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENERGY
POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT
When federal funds are expended by San Bernardino City Unified School District for any contract resulting from this
procurement process, the vendor certifies that it will be in compliance with mandatory standards and policies relating to
energy efficiency which are contained in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with the Energy Policy and
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321, et seq.; 49 C.F.R. Part 18; Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 871).
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICA PROVISIONS
Vendor certifies that vendor is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Buy America Act. Purchases
made inaccordance with the Buy America Act must still follow the applicable procurement rules calling for free and open
competition.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
CERTIFICATION OF NON-COLLUSION STATEMENT
Vendor certifies under penalty of perjury that its response to this procurement solicitation is in all respects bona fide,
fair, and made without collusion or fraud with any person, joint venture, partnership, corporation or other business or legal
entity.
Does vendor agree? YES
Initials of Authorized Representative of Vendor
Vendor agrees to comply with all federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, as applicable. It is
further acknowledged that vendor certifies compliance with all provisions, laws, acts, regulations, etc. as specifically
notedabove.
Company Name:
Address:
City:
State:
Zip:
Phone Number:
Fax #:
Email Address:
Printed Name of Authorized Representative:
Signature of Authorized Representative:
Date:
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 32 of 36
IRAN CONTRACTING ACT CERTIFICATION (Public Contract Code § 2204)
("Project" or "Contract")
Pursuant to Public Contract Code (PCC) section 2204, an Iran Contracting Act certification is required
for solicitations of goods or services of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more.
Contractor shall complete ONLY ONE of the following three paragraphs.
1. Contractor's Total Base Proposal is less than one million dollars ($1,000,000).
OR
2. Contractor's Total Base Proposal is one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more, but Contractor is not
on the current list of persons engaged in investment activities in Iran created by the
California Department of General Services ("DGS") pursuant to Public Contract Code $ 2203(b),
and Contractor is not a financial institution extending twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) or
more in credit to another person, for 45 days or more, if that other person will use the credit to
provide goods or services in the energy sector in Iran and is identified on the current list of
persons engaged in investment activities in Iran created by DGS.
OR
3.
Contractor's Total Base Proposal is one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more, but the District has
given prior written permission to Contractor to submit a proposal pursuant to PCC 2203(c) or (d). A copy of
the written permission from the District is included with Proposal.
I certify that I am duly authorized to legally bind the Contractor to this certification, that the contents
of this certification are true, and that this certification is made under the laws of the State of California.
Company Name:
City, State:
Signature:
Print Name:
Title:
Date:
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 33 of 36
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Section 49073.1 of
the California Education Code
AB1584 COMPLIANCE
By acceptance of this purchase order vendor agrees to comply with the Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act which states:
AB 1584 - Section 49073.1 of the CA ED Code which states:
(a) A local educational agency may, pursuant to a policy adopted by its governing board or, in the case of a charter
school, its governing body, enter into a contract with a third party for either or both of the following purposes:
(1) To provide services, including cloud-based services, for the digital storage, management, and retrieval of pupil
records.
(2) To provide digital educational software that authorizes a third-party provider of digital educational software to
access, store, and use pupil records in accordance with the contractual provisions listed in subdivision (b).
(b) A local educational agency that enters into a contract with a third party for purposes of subdivision (a) shall ensure
the contract contains all of the following:
(1) A statement that pupil records continue to be the property of and under the control of the local
educational agency.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a description of the means by which pupils may retain possession and control of
their own pupil-generated content, if applicable, including options by which a pupil may transfer pupil-generated
content to a personal account.
(3) A prohibition against the third party using any information in the pupil record for any purpose other than those
required or specifically permitted by the contract.
(4) A description of the procedures by which a parent, legal guardian, or eligible pupil may review personally
identifiable information in the pupil's records and correct erroneous information.
(5) A description of the actions the third party will take, including the designation and training of responsible
individuals, to ensure the security and confidentiality of pupil records. Compliance with this requirement shall not, in
itself, absolve the third party of liability in the event of an unauthorized disclosure of pupil records.
(6) A description of the procedures for notifying the affected parent, legal guardian, or eligible pupil in the event of
an unauthorized disclosure of the pupil's records.
(7) (A) A certification that a pupil's records shall not be retained or available to the third party upon completion
of the terms of the contract and a description of how that certification will be enforced.
(B) The requirements provided in subparagraph (A) shall not apply to pupil-generated content if the pupil chooses to
establish or maintain an account with the third party for the purpose of storing that content pursuant to paragraph (2).
(8) A description of how the local educational agency and the third party will jointly ensure compliance with the
federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. Sec. 1232g).
(9) A prohibition against the third party using personally identifiable information in pupil records to engage in
targeted advertising.
(c) In addition to any other penalties, a contract that fails to comply with the requirements of this section shall be
rendered void if, upon notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure, the noncompliant party fails to come into
compliance and cure any defect. Written notice of noncompliance may be provided by any party to the contract. All
parties subject to a contract voided under this subdivision shall return all pupil records in their possession to the local
educational agency.
(d) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) "Deidentified information" means information that cannot be used to identify an individual pupil.
(2) "Eligible pupil" means a pupil who has reached 18 years of age.
(3) "Local educational agency" includes school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools.
(4) "Pupil-generated content" means materials created by a pupil, including, but not limited to, essays, research
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 34 of 36
reports, portfolios, creative writing, music or other audio files, photographs, and account information that enables
ongoing ownership of pupil content. "Pupil-generated content" does not include pupil responses to a standardized
assessment where pupil possession and control would jeopardize the validity and reliability of that assessment.
(5) (A) "Pupil records" means both of the following:
(i) Any information directly related to a pupil that is maintained by the local educational agency.
(ii) Any information acquired directly from the pupil through the use of instructional software or applications
assigned to the pupil by a teacher or other local educational agency employee.
(B) "Pupil records" does not mean any of the following:
(i) Deidentified information, including aggregated deidentified information, used by the third party to improve
educational products for adaptive learning purposes and for customizing pupil learning.
(ii) Deidentified information, including aggregated deidentified information, used to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the operator's products in the marketing of those products.
(iii) Deidentified information, including aggregated deidentified information, used for the development and
improvement of educational sites, services, or applications.
(6) "Third party" refers to a provider of digital educational software or services, including cloud-based services, for
the digital storage, management, and retrieval of pupil records.
(e) If the provisions of this section are in conflict with the terms of a contract in effect before January 1, 2015, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to the local educational agency or the third party subject to that
agreement until the expiration, amendment, or renewal of the agreement.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose liability on a third party for content provided by any other
third party.
As the service provider, I am familiar with and agree to comply with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act Section 49073.1 of the California education Code.
By
Signature
Typed or Printed Name
Title
Company Name
Date
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 35 of 36
CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND DISCLOSURES
As a potential vendor/contractor with the San Bernardino City Unified School District (SBCUSD), I hereby represent and
warrant that there is no financial, business, professional, personal, or other interest, including, but not limited to, the
representation of other parties, that would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of obligations in providing
goods or services to SBCUSD. Such conflicts include those contemplated by Government Code Section 1090, the
California Political Reform Act (Government Code Section 87100 et seq.), and other California laws. SBCUSD Purchasing
Services or the Business Services office shall be immediately notified in writing if any conflict of interest (actual or
potential) arises when conducting any business with SBCUSD. If the District reasonably determines that any actual or
potential conflict of interests exists with respect to the goods or services provided by the vendor/contractor, then the
District, without liability to or recourse by the vendor/contractors, may terminate any agreements, purchase orders, or
other financial obligations by giving written notice to vendor/contractor, and the termination shall be effective upon receipt
of the notice by the vendor/contractor.
1. Disclose any and all relationships with current District employees and/or Board members that could be determined
to be a conflict of interest for this RFP.
2. Disclosure of any finder's fees, fee splitting, payments to consultants, or other contractual arrangements of the
Firms that could present a real or perceived conflict of interest.
Under penalty of perjury, I certify that there is no conflict of interest as stated above and that I shall immediately notify the
District Purchasing Services or Business Services office in writing if a potential conflict of interest arises during the course
of providing goods or services.
Signature:
Print Name:
Title:
Date:
RFP No. 26-22 Data Management and Business Intelligence Platform Solution
Page 36 of 36