REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 ECITATION SYSTEM SOFTWARE
RFP-25-124
INCORPORATED City of 1913-4046 1913
ENDLESS BANNING INFORTUNITY
CITY OF BANNING, CA
http://www.banningca.gov
RELEASE DATE: January 20, 2026
DEADLINE FOR QUESTIONS: January 29, 2026
RESPONSE DEADLINE: February 18, 2026, 4:00 pm
RESPONSES MAY BE SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY TO:
https://secure.procurenow.com/portal/banning-ca
City of Banning
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
I.
Notice
II.
Introduction
III.
Prerequisites
IV.
Scope of Work
V.
Vendor Questionnaire
VI.
Submission Instructions And Inquiries
VII.
Evaluation Criteria
VIII.
Resulting Contract
IX.
Terms And Conditions
Attachments:
A - SAMPLE - AGREEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
B - 200 CFR GRANTS
C - Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility Form
D - DRAFT Grant Agreement - TR26018 Banning
I.
Notice
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
Dear Proposers:
The City of Banning (hereinafter referred to as the "City") is requesting proposals from a
qualified public entity or private firm, to establish a contract for the scope of services outlined in
this request for proposals.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that online price and document submittals must be uploaded to the
online bidding system in accordance with the instructions included herein, on or before the time
and date set forth in the schedule of events. It shall be the responsibility of the proposer to
upload their proposal before the announced time. However, responses may be submitted at any
time prior to the deadline. (Submitted proposals may be withdrawn and resubmitted at any time
prior to the deadline, and cannot be viewed by City staff until the close date and time.)
SOLICITATION DOCUMENTS: To obtain a copy of the solicitation documents, please visit
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/banning-ca. If you are not currently registered with
the City of Banning through OpenGov, please create an account and subscribe to this project for
notifications. Proposals may only be submitted by companies who are listed as a prospective
bidder on the electronic bidding website for each project that they wish to submit a response to.
Firms must also check the web site periodically for addenda information as failure to download
and acknowledge any and all addenda in the submittal will result in proposer disqualification.
RESPONSIVE PROPOSALS: Once listed on the prospective bidders list, companies may submit
their proposals on the electronic bidding system. The City will not accept proposals submitted by
companies who are not on the prospective bidders list, or from companies who have submitted
a proposal via facsimile, email, mail, or any other format not permitted by this solicitation.
Further instructions for submitting proposals are explained in this solicitation. Companies are to
adhere to all of the submittal instructions and requirements outlined in this solicitation in order
to be considered responsive to this request for proposals.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
II.
Introduction
II.A
Summary
The City of Banning ("City") is seeking a qualified entity or individual ("Company") to provide the
services listed in the Scope of Work.
The City anticipates selecting one firm to perform the services.
Proposals are requested from Companies that have a demonstrated ability to perform the tasks
identified in this Request for Proposal ("RFP").
II.B
Background
The City of Banning is strategically located astride Interstate 10 between the Inland Empire and
the Coachella Valley in the San Gorgonio Pass. The City, incorporated in 1913, has a rich and
colorful history.
Initially Banning served as a stagecoach and railroad stop between the Arizona territories and Los
Angeles. This history has contributed to the present-day spirit of pioneer resourcefulness and
"can do" attitude that is so prevalent in the community.
Banning is a friendly and wholesome place to work and raise a family. Desirable executive
housing is available, as well as moderate and lower income housing. Clean air, ample water
supplies and the memorable and inspiring scenic vistas of both Mt. San Gorgonio and Mt. San
Jacinto, the 2 tallest peaks in Southern California, are additional amenities which make the City
of Banning a logical choice as a development opportunity in the Southern California area.
II.C
Contact Information
Angelo Heidt
Buyer
99 E. Ramsey St
PO Box 998
Banning, CA 92220
Email: aheidt@banningca.gov
Phone: (951) 922-3154
Department:
Purchasing Division
II.D
Timeline
This request for proposal will be governed by the following tentative schedule. All dates are
subject to change at the discretion of the City.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
Release Project Date
January 20, 2026
Question Submission Deadline
January 29, 2026, 4:00pm
Proposal Submission Deadline
February 18, 2026, 4:00pm
Anticipated Vendor Selection Date
March 31, 2026
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
III.
Prerequisites
Proposals will only be considered from Companies that meet the following prerequisites:
III.A Years of experience
Have at least five (5) years' of experience, within the past five (5) years under a legally registered
business name, in providing services of a similar type and scope as described in the Scope of
Services. Have not filed for bankruptcy under any business name over the past five (5) years.
III.B OpenGov Registration
Have created an account on OpenGov. Companies can register at:
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/banning-ca
Once registered, Companies must download this solicitation in order to appear on the Bidder's
List as a "Prospective Bidder." Companies that fail to specifically download this solicitation will
not appear on the Bidders' List and will be unable to participate or be considered for this RFP.
III.C
Pre-Proposal Meeting
There is not a pre-proposal meeting required for this project.
III.D Licenses
If applicable, Company and/or its key personnel, shall hold an appropriate license for the
Company's discipline and the Services on the date the Proposal is submitted.
III.E
Department of Industrial Relations Registration
If applicable, Company shall have registered with the Department of Industrial Relations and any
other required organizations.
III.F
Optional Demonstrations
Top scoring proposers may be selected for demonstrations.
III.G Grant & Additional Contract Requirements
The vendor agrees to follow all of grant requirements per this RFP, attachments, addendum(s),
etc.
For example:
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
Subject to the Acts and the Regulations made in connection with all Highway Safety Grant
Programs and, in adapted form, in all proposals for negotiated agreements regardless of funding
source:
"The [name of Recipient], in accordance with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (78 Stat. 252, 42 U.S.C 2000d to 2000d-4) and the Regulations, hereby notifies all bidders
that it will affirmatively ensure that in any contract entered into pursuant to this advertisement,
disadvantaged business enterprises will be afforded full and fair opportunity to submit bids in
response to this invitation and will not be discriminated against on the grounds of race, color, or
national origin in consideration for an award."
Must have an active Sam account in good standing
Must be able to meet all the grant requirements and provide support to City staff with grant
management
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
IV.
Scope of Work
IV.A General Propose
The Banning Police Department is seeking a software solution that better meets their current
and future business needs for mobile e-ticketing, ticket management, and reporting based on
the following objectives and benefits:
Reduced time for the Patrol Officer to record and deliver a citation.
Increased efficiency, effectiveness, and timeliness of the Patrol Officer in gaining
pertinent driver information on a traffic stop or crash.
Increased efficiency, effectiveness, and timeliness of the Patrol Officer in write-up of a
citation, or crash.
Increased efficiency, effectiveness, and timeliness of Patrol Officer's ability to provide
cited party with a paper copy of the citation, and/or crash exchange form.
Provides required citation data to the Justice, Circuit, and Municipal courts in a timely
manner.
Improves ability to mine and analyze citation data
Decrease stop time for Patrol Officers.
Increased Safety for Patrol Officer; reduction in injury risk while stopped.
Provides the reporting capability for mandatory state reporting.
Enables Banning Police to access citation and crash data/information from one source.
Streamlined process for Patrol Officers to administer a citation.
Streamlined access to City Records to citation data
End of Life to paper citation process.
IV.B Detail Scope of Work
The product for 40 users must utilize the City of Banning Police Department mobile work iPhones
along with:
eCitation Systems (mobile and desktop apps and sync service)
Court Export Module
Interface to Output Citation Records to RMS (RIMS)
Interface to Upload Collision Report Data and Documents to the CHP SWITRS System
Interface to Output Collision Records to RMS (RIMS)
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
CHP-180 Tow Form Application (Mobile)
Project management and training for all systems
Annual Maintenance and Support for all systems (and what recurring annual cost will be
moving forward for the next five years)
Cost of upgrades for all systems when available.
6 Mobile Printers (if offered or can be purchased separately, along with any PM service
and supplies cost in the Value Added section)
Compatible with Sun Ridge Systems RIMS CAD System
Compatible with Crossroads Software Report Writer for collision reporting (being utilized
through Countywide grant project)
Cost for additional subscriptions as the department expands in personal.
Compatible with IOS devices
Vendor's desktop application client, if applicable, is compatible with Windows 10 Pro
Installation and Training
IV.C Additional Insurance Requirements
Cyber Insurance coverage is also required in addition to the requirements within the sample
agreement (attachment).
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
V.
Vendor Questionnaire
Proposals should be prepared in such a way as to provide a straightforward, concise delineation
of capabilities to satisfy the requirements of this RFP. Responses should emphasize the
Company's demonstrated capability to perform work of this type. Emphasis should be
concentrated on completeness and clarity of content. Proposals shall adhere to the following
format for organization and content. Proposals must be typed and arranged/divided in the
following sequence to facilitate evaluation.
V.A
Cover Letter*
The cover letter shall include a brief general statement of intent to perform the services and
confirm that all elements of the RFP have been reviewed and understood. The letter shall include
a brief summary of Company's qualifications and Company's willingness to enter into a contract
under the terms and conditions prescribed by this RFP and in the Sample Agreement. The letter
must identify a single person for contact during the RFP review process.
*Response required
V.B
Proposal*
A. Statement of Understanding and Approach
This section must demonstrate an understanding of the Services. It should describe
the general approach, organization and staffing required for the Services requested. If
necessary, preliminary investigations, due diligence, and research shall be discussed
in this section.
This section should include the following:
An implementation plan that describes in detail (i) the methods, including
controls by which your firm or entity manages projects of the type sought by this
RFP; (ii) methodology for soliciting and documenting views of internal and
external stakeholders; (iii) and any other project management or implementation
strategies or techniques that the respondent intends to employ in carrying out
the work.
Detailed description of efforts your firm or entity will undertake to achieve client
satisfaction and to satisfy the requirements of the "Scope of Work" section.
Detailed project schedule, identifying all tasks and deliverables to be performed,
durations for each task, and overall time of completion, including a complete
transition plan. Include your plan to deal with fluctuation in service needs and any
associated price adjustments.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
Detailed description of specific tasks you will require from City staff. Explain what
the respective roles of City staff and your staff would be to complete the tasks
specified in the Scope of Work.
Proposers are encouraged to provide additional innovative and/or creative
approaches for providing the service that will maximize efficient, cost-effective
operations or increased performance capabilities. In addition, the City will
consider proposals that offer alternative service delivery means and methods for
the services desired.
Proposers are also requested to identify any City owned facilities or property
which Proposer would propose to use or lease, purchase, or rent from the City in
connection with the services to be performed, including information about the
terms of any proposed lease, purchase or use of such equipment and facilities,
and how this proposed structure affects the overall cost proposal to the City, if
applicable.
B. Company Information
This section shall include contact person information, address and telephone number
of the company main office and branch offices. Each Company shall identify itself as
to the type of organizational entity (corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
joint venture, etc.). Any supplemental information that Company believes may be
pertinent to the selection process may be provided.
The Proposal shall identify any litigation, mediation, or arbitration, regarding the
performance of any services similar to the Services, in which the Company has been
involved in the past five (5) years. If the Services require a license or certification, the
Proposal shall include any claims or disciplinary action taken against Company or any
of Company's key personnel within the past five years.
C. Company Personnel
This section shall contain names, contact numbers and description of experience,
including licenses and/or certifications, of all key personnel who would be assigned to
perform the Services. Members of the Company's professional team (managers,
contact person, etc.) should be identified by name, title, phone number, and
description of the portion of work they will be assigned to perform under this
Agreement. Also include major subcontractors (if any) and their degree of
involvement in this program. If the Company is including any subcontractors, the
Company shall identify how long the Company has worked with the subcontractor.
An affirmative statement should be included that the proposer and all assigned key
professional staff are properly licensed to practice in California.
D. Disclosure
Please disclose any and all past or current business and personal relationships with
any current Banning elected official, appointed official, City employee, or family
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
member of any current Banning elected official, appointed official, or City employee.
Any past or current business relationship may not disqualify the firm from
consideration.
E. Experience and References
The Proposal must demonstrate that the Company, or its key personnel, meets the
minimum experience requirement in #Prerequisites with a legally registered business
name, that provides services of a similar type and scope as described in the Scope of
Services. A Company shall not have filed for bankruptcy under any business name
over the past five (5) years.
Company shall provide at least 3 references, within the past 5 years, of clients for
whom services have been performed that are comparable in quality and scope to that
specified in this RFP. The references shall include client names, addresses, telephone
numbers and e-mail addresses of the clients for whom prior work was performed and
include an explanation of the services provided along with project start and end
dates.
*Response required
V.C
Price Proposal*
All proposals submitted shall have a stated dollar bid amount for providing the services outlined
in the Scope of Services. The total shall be an all-inclusive maximum price and to contain all
direct and indirect costs including all out-of-pocket expenses with a full and complete
breakdown of all said costs, and proposed fees including but not limited to hourly rates,
reimbursable expenses and/or rates, mileage and/or travel cost, miscellaneous fees, etc., for the
first year's audit engagement.
In addition, a statement must be included in this section that if the proposer is charging travel
costs, the proposer's charges invoiced to the City for travel, lodging and subsistence shall not
exceed the current IRS rates.
*Response required
V.D
Value Added Services
Please describe any value-added services your company offers that may be of use to the City
V.E
Evidence of Insurance*
In addition, the Company shall provide evidence of possession of insurance in the coverage and
amounts listed in the Sample Agreement.
City requires that licensees, lessees, and vendors have an approved Certificate of Insurance (not
a declaration or policy) or proof of legal self-insurance on file with the City for the issuance of a
permit or contract. Within ten (10) consecutive calendar days of award of contract, successful
Proposer must furnish the City with the Certificates of Insurance proving coverage as specified in
contract sample.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
*Response required
V.F
Vendor Forms
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload.
New Vendor Packet.pdf
V.G
Type of Business*
C Corporation
S Corporation
Limited Liability C Corporation
Partnership
Limited Liability Partnership
Sole Proprietor/Individual
Other
*Response required
V.H Type your Legal Company Name Here*
State your Company's Name Here. This will be verified against the California Secretary of State's
Website.
*Response required
V.I
EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS CERTIFICATION*
I certify that Bidder and Bidder's representatives have not had any communication with a City
Councilmember concerning this IFB at any time after the date and time that this IFB was publicly
advertised.
Yes
No
*Response required
V.J
EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS CERTIFICATION CONTINUED*
If stated "Yes" above, please explain the circumstances in the following space, or state "None."
*Response required
V.K
DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, DISQUALIFIED QUESTIONNAIRE*
Has the Company, any officer of the Company, or any employee of the Company who has
proprietary interest in the Company, ever been debarred, suspended, disqualified, removed, or
otherwise prevented from bidding on, or completing a federal, state, or local government
project because of a violation of law or safety regulation?
Yes
No
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
*Response required
V.L
DEBARRED SUSPENDED DISQUALIFIED QUESTIONNAIRE CONTINUED*
If stated "Yes" above, please explain the circumstances in the following space, or state "None."
*Response required
V.M DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT POSITIONS*
Each Bidder shall disclose below whether any owner or employee of the firm currently hold
positions as elected or appointed officials, directors, officers, or employees of a governmental
entity or held such positions in the past twelve months. List below or state "None."
*Response required
V.N
CERTIFICATION COMPLIANCE*
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload.
Certification-Compliance wi.
*Response required
V.O
Understand the Grant Requirements*
Per the RFP & Attachments
Yes
No
*Response required
V.P
Provide SAM.GOV Unique Entity ID number. *
Be registered upon proposal submission and provide your Sam.gov Unique Entity ID number.
Active Registration Status Required.
*Response required
V.Q
CA Debarment List*
Are you on the CA Debarment List: https://www.dir.ca.gov/dlse/debar.html
Yes
No
*Response required
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
VI.
Submission Instructions And Inquiries
VI.A Inquiries
If prior to the date fixed for submission of Proposals, a prospective Company discovers any
ambiguity, conflict, discrepancy, omission or other errors in this RFP or any of its appendices,
exhibits or attachments, the Company shall immediately notify the City of such error in writing
and request modification or clarification of the document. Modifications shall be made by
written Addenda to the RFP.
If a Company fails to notify the City, prior to the date fixed for submissions of Proposals, of an
error in the RFP known to the Company, or an error that reasonably should have been known to
the Company, the Company shall submit its Proposal at its own risk, and if the Company is
awarded a Contract, it shall not be entitled to additional compensation or time by reason of the
error or its later correction.
All communications regarding technical, scope, and/or project related questions and requests for
clarifications, changes, exceptions, and deviations to the terms and conditions set forth in this
RFP shall be submitted via "Q&A" through the City's Electronic Bidding System, OpenGov, before
the deadline and according to these specifications herein. Any and all other bidding
communications shall only be with Purchasing, at (951) 922-3154.
The Final day for receipt of questions from the Proposer shall be on or before the due date
indicated in the schedule of events section. To ensure fairness and avoid misunderstandings, all
communications must be in written format and submitted only in the format set forth above.
Any verbal communications will not be considered or responded to. All questions received by the
due date will be logged and reviewed and if required, a response will be provided via an
addendum to the RFP that will be posted on the City's website. Any communications, whether
written or verbal, with any City Councilmember, City staff, or RFP evaluation panel member
other than the individual indicated above, prior to award of a contract by City Council, is strictly
prohibited and the Proposer shall be disqualified from consideration.
VI.B Completion Of Proposal
Proposals shall be completed in all respects as required by this RFP. A proposal may be rejected
if conditional or incomplete, or if it contains any alterations or other irregularities of any kind,
and will be rejected if any such defect or irregularity can materially affect the quality of the
proposal. Proposals which contain false or misleading statements may be rejected. If, in the
opinion of the City's Selection Committee, such information was intended to mislead the City in
its evaluation of the proposal, and the attribute, condition, or capability is a requirement of this
RFP, the proposal will be rejected. Statements made by a Company shall also be without
ambiguity, and with adequate elaboration, where necessary, for clear understanding.
Unauthorized conditions, exemptions, limitations, qualifications, or provisions attached to a
Proposal will render it non-responsive and will cause its rejection.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
The Company, in responding to this RFP, must submit Proposals in the format identified in this
RFP. The Proposal must address all requirements of the RFP even if a "no response" is
appropriate.
Costs for developing Proposals are entirely the responsibility of the Company and shall not be
chargeable to the City. The City shall not be liable for any costs incurred in response to this RFP,
including but not limited to, costs for any interviews, presentations, or other follow-up
information necessary as part of the selection process. All costs shall be borne by the Company
responding to this RFP. The Company responding to this RFP shall hold the City harmless from
any liability, claim, and expense whatsoever incurred by or on behalf of the Company.
VI.C Delivery / Submission Of Proposals
The Final day for submission of proposals shall be on or before the due date indicated in the
schedule of events section.
Companies shall register on the City's Electronic Bidding System,
https://www.banningca.gov/bids Once registered, Companies must download the RFP while
logged in under their own name and identification number to appear on the Current Prospective
Bidders List as a "Prospective Bidder." Companies that fail to download the RFP will not appear
on the Current Prospective Bidders List and their proposals will be considered non-responsive. If
a Company is unable to register or download the RFP from the bidding website, a representative
may contact ProcureNow.
All proposal documents and supplementary documents must be uploaded using the City's
bidding website prior to event date and time as instructed in this solicitation. Once file(s) have
been uploaded and the Submission Status shows as "Submitted" the submission is complete. At
that point respondents will receive an email confirmation from the bidding website.
The City reserves the right to reject any and all proposals and to waive information and minor
irregularities in any proposal received.
Acceptance of Terms and Conditions - Submission of a proposal pursuant to this RFP shall
constitute acknowledgment and acceptance of all terms and conditions hereinafter set forth in
this RFP.
The time and date are fixed, and extensions will not be granted unless specifically stated by the
City in an addendum to this RFP. Proposals not received before the bid event time will not be
accepted.
VI.D Alternative Proposals
Only one proposal is to be submitted by each Company for this RFP. Multiple simultaneous
proposals will result in rejection of all Proposals submitted by Company. A Company may, prior
to the proposal due date and time, withdraw a proposal and submit a new proposal, so long as
the new proposal is submitted before the proposal due date and time.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
VI.E
Examination Of RFP And Sites Of Work
The Company shall carefully examine the RFP and all sites, if applicable, of the work
contemplated. The submission of a Proposal shall be conclusive evidence that the Company has
investigated and is satisfied as to the conditions to be encountered, as to the character, quality,
and quantities of work to be performed and materials to be furnished, the difficulties to be
encountered, and to the requirements of the Proposal, RFP, and other Contract Documents.
By submitting a Proposal, the Company hereby certifies that it has: examined the local
conditions, read each and every clause of this RFP, included all costs necessary to complete the
specified work in its proposed prices, and agrees that if it is awarded the Contract it will make no
claim against the City based upon ignorance of local conditions or misunderstanding of any
provision of the Contract. Should the conditions turn out otherwise than anticipated by it, the
Company agrees to assume all risks incident thereto.
VI.F Addenda
Unless otherwise specified, any addenda issued during the time of bidding must be
acknowledged electronically via the City's Bidding Website, which will be made part of the
proposal. Addenda notifications will be provided to those listed on the Electronic Prospective
Bidder's List via email.
VI.G Withdraw Of Proposals
All proposals shall be firm offers and may not be withdrawn for a period of one hundred twenty
(120) days following the deadline date for submission of proposals noted herein. Submitted
Proposals may be withdrawn at any time prior to the submission deadline.
VI.H Pre-Proposal Meeting
There will be no pre-proposal meeting.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
VII.
Evaluation Criteria
The City reserves the right to amend, withdraw, and cancel this RFP. The City also reserves the
right to reject all responses to this RFP at any time prior to agreement execution. Furthermore,
the City reserves the right to request additional information about any and all Proposals, that in
City's opinion, is necessary to assure that the Company's competence, number of qualified
employees, business organization, experience, and financial resources are adequate to perform
the Services.
All Proposals shall be reviewed to verify that the Company has met the minimum requirements
as stated in this RFP. Proposals that have not followed the rules, do not meet minimum content
and quality standards, and/or do not provide references will be rejected as non-responsive.
Responsive proposals will be evaluated on the basis of the criteria below. If needed, interviews
will be scheduled during or after the week indicated in the "Schedule of Events" section. If
needed, interviews will be conducted by the same members on the proposal evaluation panel.
Dates, times, and a location will be coordinated at that time if interviews are deemed necessary
after the evaluation of responsive proposals. If interviews are deemed necessary, candidates
who have submitted the highest scoring proposals within a competitive range as determined by
the City will be invited to participate in the interview process.
The selected Company shall then enter into exclusive negotiations with the City to formalize the
Scope of Service and Compensation. Recommendation for award is contingent upon the
successful negotiation of final contract terms. Negotiations shall be confidential and not subject
to disclosure to competing Proposers unless an agreement is reached. If the City is unable to
obtain a fair and reasonable price or cannot reach agreement regarding the terms for the Scope
of Services, then the City will end negotiations with that Company and begin negotiations with
the next Company which best meets the needs of the City, and so on until a City and the
Company reach agreement.
The City intends to select the Company that offers the best value to the City based on the criteria
outlined above.
No.
Evaluation Criteria
Scoring Method
Weight (Points)
1.
Qualifications
Points Based
25
(25% of Total)
2.
Pricing
Points Based
10
(10% of Total)
3.
Experience (Projects of similar size and scope)
Points Based
20
(20% of Total)
4.
Professional References
Points Based
10
(10% of Total)
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
5.
Approach and Methodology
Points Based
30
(30% of Total)
6.
Value Added Services
Points Based
5
(5% of Total)
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
VIII.
Resulting Contract
VIII.A CONTRACT TERM
The initial term of the Agreement shall last one (1) year from the date of execution with the
option to extend for four (4) additional one-year terms not to exceed five (5) years based upon
acceptable performance by the Company, acceptable fees and subject to the same terms and
conditions of the Agreement.
Pricing is to remain firm for the initial contract term. Should the option to renew for additional
years be exercised, City and Company may negotiate any and all price modifications.
VIII.B CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
In submitting a Proposal, the Company agrees to enter into an Agreement with the City without
exceptions to the City's standard agreement. The City's standard agreement is non-negotiable,
and a copy of the standard agreement is attached herein. Any change to the standard
agreement will deem the Proposal non-responsive. In the event of a conflict exists between
documents the following order of precedence shall apply:
Agreement
City of Banning's Request For Proposals
Company's Response to the Request For Proposals
VIII.C EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT
After contract award, the following shall be signed and returned to the City within fourteen (14)
calendar days from the date the City mails, or by other means delivers said documents to the
Company:
The Agreement in the form included herein, properly executed by the Company.
Certificates of Insurance and Additional Insured Endorsement evidencing coverage as
specified in the sample agreement.
Confirmation of current business tax certificate.
Bonds, if required.
In any event that day fourteen (14) of calendar days falls on Saturday, Sunday, a legal holiday for
the State of California, or on days when the City is closed, the Contract Documents shall be
delivered by the following working day.
No Agreement shall be binding upon the City until all documents are fully executed by the
Company and the City.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
VIII.D FAILURE TO EXECUTE THE AGREEMENT
Failure to execute the Agreement and furnish the required insurance and business tax
certificate, within the required time period shall be just cause for the rescission of the award. If
bonds are also required, failure to furnish sufficient bonds shall cause rescission of the award. If
the successful Company refuses or fails to execute the Agreement, the City may award the
Agreement to the next qualified Company.
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
IX.
Terms And Conditions
IX.A Contract Terms And Conditions
The successful company will be required to execute the City's standard agreement
("Agreement"). A sample is attached herein. The successful company must meet all insurance
requirements in the Agreement. All terms and conditions of the Agreement are non-negotiable.
Companies must possess valid City of Banning Business License throughout the term on the
contract. Failure to execute the Agreement and furnish the required insurance within the
required time period shall be just cause for the rescission of the award. If any of the successful
Companies refuse or fail to execute the Agreement, the City may award the Agreement to the
next most qualified Company.
IX.B Public Records
All Proposals submitted in response to this RFP become the property of the City and pursuant to
the Public Records Act (Gov. Code, $ 6250 et seq.) are public records, and as such may be subject
to public review at least 10 days before selection.
The Company must notify the City in advance of any proprietary or confidential materials
contained in the Proposal and provide justification for not making such material public. The City
shall have sole discretion to disclose or not disclose such material subject to any protective order
that the Company may obtain. Note that under California law, price proposal to a public agency
is not a trade secret.
Submission of a proposal shall indicate that, if Proposer requests that the City withhold from
disclosure information identified as confidential, and the City complies with the Proposer's
request, Proposer shall assume all responsibility for any challenges resulting from the non-
disclosure, indemnify and hold harmless the City from and against all damages (including but not
limited to attorney's fees that may be awarded to the party requesting the Proposer
information), and pay any and all costs and expenses related to the withholding of Proposer
information. Proposer shall not make a claim, sue, or maintain any legal action against the City or
its directors, officers, employees, or agents concerning the disclosure, or withholding from
disclosure, of any Proposer information. If Proposer does not request that the City withhold from
disclosure information identified as confidential, the City shall have no obligation to withhold the
information from disclosure and may release the information sought without any liability to the
City.
The City reserves the right to make use of any information or idea contained in the Proposal. All
materials, ideas and formats submitted in response to this RFP will become the property of the
City upon receipt.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
IX.C Conflict Of Interest
The Proposer warrants and represents that it presently has no interest and agrees that it will not
acquire any interest which would present a conflict of interest under California Government
Code sections 1090 et seq., or sections 87100 et seq., during the performance of services under
any Agreement awarded. The Proposer further covenants that it will not knowingly employ any
person having such an interest in the performance of any Agreement awarded. Violation of this
provision may result in any Agreement awarded being deemed void and unenforceable.
IX.D Rejection Of Proposals
The City may reject any/or all Proposals and may waive any immaterial deviation in a Proposal.
The City's waiver of an immaterial defect shall in no way modify this RFP or excuse the Company
from full compliance with this RFP and/or the Contract Documents if awarded the Contract.
Proposals that include terms and conditions other than City's terms and conditions may be
rejected as being non-responsive. The City may make investigations as deemed necessary to
determine the ability of the Company to perform the work, and the Company shall furnish to the
City all such information and data for this purpose as requested by the City. The City reserves the
right to reject any proposal if the evidence submitted by, or investigation of, such Company fails
to satisfy the City that such Company is properly qualified to carry out the obligations of the
Agreement and to complete the work described herein.
IX.E
Protest Procedures
Failure to comply with the rules set forth herein may result in rejection of the protest. Protests
based upon restrictive specifications or alleged improprieties in the proposal procedure which
are apparent or reasonably should have been discovered prior to receipt of proposals shall be
filed in writing with the RFP Facilitator at least 10 calendar days prior to the deadline for receipt
of proposals. The protest must clearly specify in writing the grounds and evidence on which the
protest is based.
Protests based upon alleged improprieties that are not apparent or which could not reasonably
have been discovered prior to submission date of the proposals, such as disputes over the staff
recommendation for contract award, shall be submitted in writing to the RFP Facilitator, within
forty-eight hours from receipt of the notice from the City advising of staff's recommendation for
award of contract. The protest must clearly specify in writing the grounds and evidence on which
the protest is based. The RFP Facilitator will respond to the protest in writing at least three days
prior to the meeting at which staff's recommendation to the City Council will be considered.
Should Proposer decide to appeal the response of the RFP Facilitator, and pursue its protest at
the Council meeting, it will notify the RFP Facilitator of its intention at least two days prior to the
scheduled meeting.
City of Banning
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
IX.F
Cancellation
The City retains the right to cancel this RFP at any time, should it be deemed to be in the best
interest of the City. No obligation either expressed or implied exists on the part of the City to
make an award based on the submission of any proposals.
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year
first hereinabove written.
CITY OF BANNING
CONSULTANT
Douglas Schulze,
Date
NAME:
Date
City Manager
TITLE:
NAME:
Date
TITLE:
ATTEST:
Tax ID No.
Caroline Patton
Date
Deputy City Clerk
Address:
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Richards, Watson & Gershon
City Council Approval:
Kevin G. Ennis, Esq.,
Date
City Attorney
NOTE: PROOF OF AUTHORITY TO BIND CONTRACTING PARTY REQUIRED. APPROPRIATE ATTESTATIONS SHALL BE
INCLUDED AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY THE BYLAWS, ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION, OR OTHER RULES OR
REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO CONSULTANT'S BUSINESS ENTITY.
City of Banning
City of
BANNING
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
RFP-25-124 eCitation System Software