# FUSRAP Data Management Services

Solicitation: W912BU_FY26_FUSRAP_DMS
Type: Sources Sought
NAICS: 518210
Opp ID: 5d602fa1-2abd-48cb-a212-dcdcb7c29038



===== SOURCE FILE 1: 6cf01e93-01c9-4c36-9724-dee1b3ccf344.txt =====

Scope for Data Management Services. Majority work to be performed under
Environmental Consulting Services North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) Code #518210 - Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services
PWS - BASE IDIQ
DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/SCOPE OF WORK STATEMENTS:
1.0
General:
The purpose of this contract is to provide a full range of data processing,
hosting, management and related services to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in support of
ongoing environmental remediation and restoration of the former DuPont Chambers Works
Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program (FUSRAP) site. The site was originally
owned and operated by DuPont, but is now owned and operated by the Chemours Company
(Chemours). USACE is addressing radiological contamination at the site from past uranium
refinement, scrap recycling and research performed for the Office of Scientific Research and
Development (OSRD), Manhattan Engineer District (MED) and Atomic Energy Commission
(AEC) in the early years of the nation's atomic energy program. USACE is issuing this Scope of
Work (SOW) under the requirements of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended, 42 United States Code
(U.S.C.) § 9601 et seq. and the NCP, 40 CFR § 300.
This contract aims mainly to provide USACE with data management services to support near-
term management of data in active use, and prepare for long-term data management to meet
USACE FUSRAP Head Quarters (HQ) and Department of Energy (DOE) program requirements
for future data transfer to the DOE when active work is complete. Work includes: develop site-
specific data management plan, implement the FUSRAP Records Management Guide
(December, 2025), implement the draft FUSRAP Environmental Data Management System
(FEDMS) Data Management Plan (November, 2024), host database for storage and use of site
data, host database for storage and use of large datasets including but not limited to
photogrammetry, Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), historical aerial photography,
Geographic Information System (GIS) data, etc., Also, the contractor shall be required to digitize
historical FUSRAP data stored on microfilm and host database for the digitized data, and
provide complex, AI enhanced searches of this very large database. The Contractor shall also
achieve and ensure compliance with Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) Level
1 standards for all site-specific databases, segregate and store CUI data, complete QC of all data
management efforts, organize and host training for USACE and USACE contractor database
users, collect data including but not limited to aerial survey using Remotely Pilot Aircraft
System (RPAS) and develop required safety plans (Quality Assurance Project Plans (QAPP)
including Uniform Federal Policy QAPP and Work Plans, and Safety and Occupational Health
(SOH) Plan including an Accident Prevention Plan (APP) and current Activity Hazard Analyses
(AHAs)), and 2D and 3D data visualization. Achieving compliance with CMMC Level 2
standards may be required for some task orders.
The Contractor shall also be expected to furnish all materials, plant, labor, equipment, supplies,
personnel, and all other services required to perform the data processing, hosting, and related
services outlined in this performance work statement and as specifically identified in the
individual task orders. The services required by this contract will be provided for the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, Philadelphia District. The geographic area encompassed by this contract
includes work within the former DuPont Chambers Works FUSRAP site located in Salem
County, New Jersey, with small portions of the site extending into Newcastle County, Delaware..
2.0
Scope of Work: The timeframe and specific procedures for each item of work will be
described on an individual task order basis.
2.1 Capability Requirements: The Contractor's staffing must include experienced
professionals qualified in the following areas of expertise:
Computer Operator
Computer Systems Analyst
System Support Specialist
Surveying
LiDAR data collection
RPAS drone operation
Drafting/GIS/CAD
Technical Writing
Clerical and Administrative
Analytical testing and data review using Automated Data Review (ADR)
(latest version) and Environmental Data Management System (EDMS)
(latest version)
2.2 Additional Capability Requirements. The Contractor or subcontractor(s) staffing must
include professionals experienced in the following areas of expertise.
Health & Safety
Industrial Hygiene
Environmental Science
Radiological screening
Waste Management
2.3 Data Management. The Contractor shall be capable of providing innovative technologies,
as well as traditional methods of data collection and management. Examples of some of
the data management work that may be required are listed below:
Data storage - shall include, but not be limited to, hosting databases to store environmental
data, metadata, survey data, aerial photography, GIS data, designs and reports, meeting
minutes and admin documents.
Data digitization - shall include scanning/processing physical records to create a digital
record.
Data management and documentation - shall include documenting the location of and
transfer of historical/active-use site data. Shall include specifying standards for use of,
naming of, versioning of, storage of, transfer of, and general management of all historical,
current, and future data generated at or used at the site.
Data collection, Drone LiDAR - shall include collection and processing of aerial survey
data, to include Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) point cloud data, using a Remotely
Piloted Aircraft System (RPAS). Drone flights shall be conducted by Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA)-certified RPAS pilot and a trained visual observer.
Data Visualization - shall include development of 3-Dimensional (3D) models and map
generation supporting data visualization, this may include development of Digital Elevation
Models (DEMs) from collected LiDAR data.
2.4 Support Activities. The Contractor shall be capable of performing activities supporting
data management. Examples of some of the support activities that may be required are
listed below:
Quality Control - A qualified professional, or staff approved by the Government shall
oversee data management tasks. This staff shall be responsible for: supervise implementation
of FUSRAP Records Management guidance, supervise implementation of FUSRAP FEDMS
guidance, supervise implementation of the data management plan (developed under this
contract), supervise implementation of CMMC compliance measures.
Stakeholder Coordination - To include coordination with other federal agencies accessing the
data or involved in FUSRAP data management (USASE Headquarters (HQ), Department of
Energy (EOC), USACE legal, USACE EMCX, USACE federal labs, etc.), coordination with
USACE contractors and their subcontractors accessing/generating data, coordination with site
owners (currently DuPont Chemours).
Development of 3-Dimensional (3D) models and map generation supporting data
visualization, this may include development of Digital Elevation Models (DEMs) from
collected LiDAR data.
Preparation of/updates to Quality Assurance Project Plans (QAPP), including Uniform
Federal Policy QAPP and Work Plans.
Preparation of/updates to Health and Safety Plans - A Safety and Occupational Health (SOH)
Plan including an Accident Prevention Plan (APP) and current Activity Hazard Analyses
(AHAs) shall be prepared for, and reviewed by, USACE prior to mobilization.
Cost estimating activities.
Reporting.
3.0
Administrative Requirements:
3.1 Cybersecurity Maturity Model Compliance (CMMC): The Contractor shall prioritize
cybersecurity, ensuring compliance with stringent DoD data security requirements and
achieving CMMC Level 1 standards, completing and submitting the Final Level 1 (Self)
Assessment. The Contractor shall comply with all CMMC requirements pertaining to
Federal Contract Information (FCI) and must meet the 15 security requirements set by
the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.204-21. Achieving CMMC Level 2
standards may be required for some task orders.
3.2 Progress Reports and Payment Requests: A progress report (ENG 93) shall be submitted
electronically and hardcopy to the Philadelphia District Technical Manager (a specific
Technical Manager shall be assigned for each task order) once each month, unless
otherwise directed by the Task Order, during each task order period. The report shall
describe the work completed during the reporting period and give the project status on a
percentage basis of the total amount of work completed. A payment request shall also be
submitted to the Philadelphia District once each month. The percent claimed for payment
shall coincide with the progress report. Unless otherwise noted, the progress report and
payment request should be electronically distributed to the attention of the designated
Contracting Officers Representative (COR) and Technical Project Manager.
Mailing Address:
Philadelphia District Corps of Engineers
ATTN: TBD
CENAP-DPI
1650 Arch St.
Philadelphia, PA 19103
3.3 Project Documentation:
Meeting Minutes. The Contractor shall provide a record of all meetings, telephone
conferences, and other discussions or verbal directives, in which the Contractor or a
representative of the Contractor participated. The records shall be dated and submitted
to the COR within 3 business days of the meeting unless otherwise stated in the task
order. At a minimum these records shall identify the participating personnel, subjects
discussed; conclusions reached, and assigned actions.
Project Records. The Contractor shall assemble and index all records obtained or
developed by the Contractor in the performance of each task order. At the completion of
the work on the task order, unless otherwise stated in the Task Order, the Contractor
shall submit via electronic and physical means all the original records, including the
index into secure boxes for transport to a location as directed by the Contracting Officers
Representative (COR). The Contractor shall retain a copy of all project deliverables and
the project record index for the duration of the contract then coordinate transferal with
the USACE. The Contractor shall not retain any other records or copies of records except
with permission of the Contracting Officer.
Confidentiality. All documents and information developed or obtained by the Contractor
shall be considered privileged information of the United States. The Contractor shall not
release or allow access to this information outside of the Government officials as
designated by the Contracting Officer, its own officers, employees, agents or
subcontractors who need the information for the performance of the work. All requests
for the release of information shall be referred by the Contractor to the USACE Project
Manager (PM). The PM shall coordinate the request with the appropriate officials for
reply. The obligation to maintain the confidentiality of information extends beyond the
completion of the contract and individual task orders, until released by the Contracting
Officer or as determined by a United States court of competent jurisdiction. See Clause
at DFARS 252.204-7000, DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION, Section I.
3.4 Contract Deliverables: The Contractor shall submit all deliverables in draft and final
format as required within the specific instructions of each task order, including the
format, number of copies, and distribution. At a minimum, all final copies of documents
shall include one copy in PDF format pdf). Currently the Philadelphia District
standards for software are consistent with the most current versions of MS Office, MS
Windows 11, AutoCAD® and ArcGIS Pro. These products are to be considered the
default software of choice unless otherwise specified within individual task order scopes
of work, as determined by individual customer requirements or as the District
incorporates updated versions of its software. Specifically:
CADD Files: When required and requested in a task order, all CADD files (survey and
topographic data, remedial action design drawings, contaminant migration maps and
models, etc.) shall be digitized into PDF format (*.pdf) files. CADD files shall also meet
any upgrade to all Corps of Engineers systems throughout the duration of the contract.
GIS Files: When required and requested in a task order, all GIS files (survey and
topographic data, remedial action data collected, contaminant migration maps generated,
etc.) shall be submitted compatible with Environmental Systems Research Institute
(ESRI) shapefiles or personal geodatabases format (or other format if directed in the
individual task order). GIS files shall also meet any upgrade to all Corps of Engineers
systems throughout the duration of the contract. All GIS data shall be collected using the
local State Plane coordinate system using the North American Datum of 1983 and the
North American Vertical Datum of 1988. All files shall be collected using linear units of
US Survey feet for both the horizontal and vertical.
Electronic Files: All final reports and documents, including laboratory analysis data,
shall be submitted in MS Word and/or MS Excel or other approved format.
The Contractor shall consult ER 11 10 -1-263 concerning chemical testing data quality
management.
All laboratory electronic data deliverables shall comply with the USACE Automated
Data Review (ADR) specifications/ Stage Electronic Data Deliverables (SEDD) and
Environmental Data Management System (EDMS).
All analytical electronic data shall be reviewed using the most current
ADR software and uploaded to the USACE EDMS.
All reports shall be provided in Microsoft® Word software (latest edition).
All raw chemical or engineering data shall be provided in a spreadsheet format
utilizing Microsoft® Excel software (latest edition).
All final reports, including tables, figures, and drawings, shall be provided in Adobe®
Acrobat® PDF format.
Spatial information or metadata shall be compliant with the Federal Geographic
Data Committee standards. Additional guidelines are available in EM-1110-1-
2909, Geospatial Data and Systems.
A requisite level of QC shall be provided to ensure that all initial documents and
submittals provided to the USACE satisfy the requirements of each individual
Task Order. The Contractor Quality Control program shall include procedures to
ensure that all submittals satisfy the requirements of the SOW and Task Order
prior to submitting to USACE. All work plans, data packages and reports will be
reviewed by USACE and comments provided, where appropriate, using a
comment-response form. The Contractor shall respond to the review comments
using the comment-response form and revise the affected document using tracked
changes. After all responses are accepted by USACE and appropriate changes are
made to the document, the project stakeholders will be given an opportunity to
review and comment on the revised documents.
4.0
Task Orders:
As the needs of the Corps of Engineers are defined, the Contracting Officer will notify
the Contractor of a need through the issuance of a Request for Proposal (RFP) Letter. A
Scope of Work attached to the RFP Letter will provide the Contractor with a description
of the services to be provided for the prospective task order. A copy of the wage
determination will also be furnished from the area where the work will be performed. The
Contractor shall then prepare their proposal for accomplishing the task by preparing and
submitting sufficient documentation (including identifying all subcontractors and
associated costs) to assure that the Contractor has provided sufficient planning to
accomplish the required task. The proposal provided by the Contractor shall provide a
detailed breakdown of the costs, which includes level of effort (by labor category listed in
the Schedule, Section B), including identifying all subcontractors and associated cost,
and any required travel or special equipment or supplies.
In cases where the Contractor intends to hire a discipline to perform work and the rate has
not been established under Schedule B of the contract, the rate will be negotiated. The
type of discipline required will determine the type of overhead to be applied. It is
recommended that this rate be negotiated before hiring of the discipline takes place.
Hiring before a rate has been negotiated shall not justify fair and reasonable cost.
The proposal shall be used to establish the Contractor's capability to perform the work
and as a basis for negotiating the cost of the work. The time required for receipt of the
Contractor's proposal shall be identified in each RFP Letter. Upon receipt of the
Contractor's proposal the Corps of Engineers will review the proposal documents for
adequacy and completeness. The Corps of Engineers will then negotiate with the
Contractor the proposed effort, the fixed-price cost for performing the work, and the time
period for performing the work
In addition to the unit prices specified in the Schedule, Section B, out-of-town travel
expenses which have been negotiated as part of the task order will be reimbursed. Cost
for lodging, meals, and incidental expenses shall be in accordance with per diem rates
for travel set forth in the Government's Joint Travel Regulations.
Other Direct Costs of equipment and special supplies (ODCs), when required for special
tasks, will also be reimbursed under this contract. The requirement and cost for
equipment usage and special supplies will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis and
must be approved as part of each task order. Note: Specialized equipment and supplies
are those above and beyond what is normally encountered for performance of a task.
Work will only be ordered through the issuance of individual task orders. All task orders
issued will be for the services specified therein, and will be in accordance with the fixed
rates. The cost of work that is not covered by the fixed rates in this contract will be
negotiated on an individual task order basis.
The Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) for each task order will be responsible
for the administration of task orders placed hereunder. The Contracting Officer
Representative does not have authority to modify any provision of this contract. Any
request for deviation from the terms of this contract or any task orders issued hereunder
must be submitted to the Contracting Officer for contractual action. The COR's name and
contact information for each task order shall be provided to the Contractor at Task Order
award.
The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer's Representative upon completion of
each individual task order. The Contractor shall give advance notice of the date the work
will be fully completed and ready for final inspection.
A DD Form 1155 will be issued for each task order. Each task order will include:
(a)
Date of task order; contract number; task order number; task order price or
performance data; accounting and appropriation data; and any other
pertinent information. Delivery or performance shall be specified in each
task order issued hereunder.
(b)
The specific Scope of Work related to the work covered by the task
order and any other special technical requirements, instructions, or
clearances.
5.0
Technical Requirements:
5.1 Permits, Certifications, Licenses and Site Access: The Contractor shall comply with all
Federal, State and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the performance of
this work. The Contractor shall determine what, if any, permits are required to perform
this work. The Contractor shall procure all required permits, certifications and licenses
required by Federal, State, and local law for the execution of this work.
Access to survey locations shall be obtained by the Government. The site and work
area is within the Chemours facility and is fenced in. The Contractor may stage
needed equipment and supplies at a designated location within this area. While it is
likely that Contractor equipment and supplies stored at the site shall be secure, site
security cannot be guaranteed by USACE. Contractor personnel are responsible for
security of their machines, equipment, supplies, etc.
Note: in order to gain access to work at the Chemours site, Contractor and
subcontractor personnel shall be required to take safety training at Chemours.
USACE will coordinate the training with Chemours.
5.2 Safety and Health: This subsection describes, in general terms, the minimum Contractor
safety, health, and emergency response requirements associated with this contract. The
Contractor shall have an ongoing Safety and Health Program meeting the requirements
of the OSHA standard, 29 CFR 1910.20,29 CFR 1910.21, and 29 CFR 1910. 120. In
addition, the Contractor shall prepare, implement, and enforce a site-specific Accident
Prevention Plan (APP). The Contractor shall ensure that the subcontractors, suppliers,
and support personnel follow all safety and health provisions.
Safety and Health Program: The Corps of Engineers reserves the right to review the
Contractor's corporate "Safety and Health Program." The Contractor shall incorporate
any additions or revisions required by the Contracting Officer.
Site Safety and Health Plan: The Contractor shall prepare a written Site Safety and
Health Plan (SSHP)/Accident Prevention Plan (APP) that complies with the specific task
order. Acceptance of the Contractor's SSHP is required prior to start of field activities.
The Corps of Engineers reserves the right to visit and/or inspect site work at any time
and reserves the right to require the Contractor to make changes in his SSHP and
operations as necessary to assure the safety and health of all persons on or near the site.
Regulations: The Contractor's Safety and Health Program shall comply with and
reflect the following applicable regulations and publications:
(a)
OSHA Standards, 29 CFR 1910 and 29 CFR 1926.
(b)
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Safety and Health Requirements Manual,
EM 385-1-1 (2014 or most current).
(c)
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers regulation "Safety and Occupational
Health Document Requirements for Hazardous, Toxic, and Radioactive
Waste (HTRW) and Ordnance and Explosive Waste (OEW) Activities,"
current date.
(d)
NIOSH/OSHNUSCG/EPA Document, "Occupational Safety and Health
Guidance Manual for Hazardous Waste Site Activities," October 1985
(DHHS Publication No. 85-115).
(e)
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clause "Accident Prevention" (52.236-13).
(f)
Other relevant Federal, State, and local regulations.
Responsibility: The overall responsibility for the development, implementation, and
continued enforcement of the Contractor's Safety and Health Program and Site Safety
and Health Plan/Accident prevention Plans lies with the Contractor.
(a)
The Contractor shall utilize the services of an experienced Certified Safety
and Health Professional; ex. Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH), Certified
Safety Professional (CSP) or Certified Health Physicist, depending on the
nature of the hazards anticipated, to implement and oversee the Safety and
Health program and to develop, implement, and sign all Site Safety and
Health Plans (SSHP), in accordance with ER-385-1-92, Appendix B. Any
changes to the established Safety and Health Program or SSHPs shall be at
the direction and approval of the Certified Safety and Health Professional.
The CIH/CSP/CHP shall not necessarily be required to be on site during site
activities, but shall be readily available for consultation when required.
(b)
All those involved in site investigations shall be required to have fulfilled the 29
CFR 1910.120 OSHA 40-hour basic health and safety training of the job's health
and safety plan, including medical monitoring and current 8-hour annual
refresher. Supervisors and those tasked with safety and health responsibilities
must have completed the 8-hour supervisor's course.
(c)
All site field workers are required to have Rad II training.
(d)
The Contractor is responsible for furnishing all necessary worker safety
protection equipment and training. CPR training, first aid training, respirator
training, and respirator fit testing must be documented by the Contractor.
5.3 Laboratory Support Services: Field testing capability, and field laboratory capability,
shall be used either in combination or individually depending on the circumstances of
the task.
Field testing capability shall include, as a minimum, the standards, equipment, and
knowledge to use photo ionizing detectors, combustible gas/oxygen meters, ionizing
radiation meters, and pH and conductivity meters.
Analysis capabilities shall be identified in each individual task order. More than one
laboratory may be identified to cover the range of analyses required. All levels of data
quality shall be specified by the Contractor and approved by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
Analytical methods used shall be Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standard
methods, unless technically impractical. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers shall
approve the labs and analytical methods used under each task order.
5.4 Utility Clearances: Prior to the start of intrusive work, the Contractor shall call New
Jersey One Call at 1-800-272-1000 to arrange utility mark-outs at the site as required by
law. The Contractor shall provide USACE a written record of the findings from this
call. To the extent practicable, the Contractor shall review available maps showing
utility locations.
The Contractor shall also arrange to have a commercial utility locator service clear the area
around each boring location prior to drilling by scanning a 10-foot diameter circle with the
boring location at its center. The Contractor shall ensure that utility and any metal
obstructions are documented down to approximately 15 feet below ground surface. Utilities
and other identified subsurface features in these areas shall be marked with paint on the
ground surface as well as stakes/pin flags. Mark outs shall include both Ground Penetrating
Radar and a resistivity survey.
The Contractor shall mark out of the boring locations at the site with stakes, paint, pin flags,
etc. These markings shall last through the completion of the soil boring program in order to
ensure that no intrusive work is done in areas not previously cleared of utilities and other
features.
6.0
Period of Performance:
This Contract is to have a Period of Performance (PoP) not to exceed Five (5) years from the
date of award.