The City of
SAN DIEGO
Request for Proposal (RFP) for Grants Management System
Solicitation Number:
10090460-26-S
Solicitation Issue Date:
February 13, 2026
Pre-Proposal Conference:
No Pre-Proposal Conference will be
held.
Questions and Comments Due:
February 23, 2026 @ 12:00 p.m.
Proposal Due Date and Time ("Closing Date"):
March 16, 2026 @ 2:00 p.m.
Contract Terms:
Five (5) years from the Effective Date, as
defined in Article I, Section 1.2 of the
City's General Contract Terms and
Provisions.
City Contact:
Sandra M. Vasquez
Supervising Procurement
Contracting Officer
SMVasquez@sandiego.gov.
619-236-6032
Submissions:
Proposer is required to provide one (1)
original hard copy and one (1)
electronic copy (e.g., thumb drive or
CD), or an electronic bid via PlanetBids,
of their response as described herein.
The City may require Bidders to
submit original hard copies prior to
execution of the contract if the
PlanetBids electronic submission
does not include an authorized
electronic signature page (e.g.,
Adobe Sign, DocuSign).
Completed and signed RFP signature
page is required, with most recent
addendum listed as acknowledgement of
all addenda issued.
CONTRACT RESULTING FROM REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL NUMBER 10090460-2-S, Grants
Management System
This Contract (Contract) is entered into by and between the City of San Diego, a municipal
corporation (City), and the successful proposer to Request for Proposal (RFP) # 10090460-2-S,
Grants Management System (Contractor).
RECITALS
On or about 2/13/2026, City issued an RFP to prospective proposers on services to be
provided to the City. The RFP and any addenda and exhibits thereto are collectively referred
to as the "RFP." The RFP is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
City has determined that Contractor has the expertise, experience, and personnel necessary
to provide the services.
City wishes to retain Contractor to provide a grant management system as further described
in the Scope of Work, attached hereto as Exhibit B.
For good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is acknowledged, City and
Contractor agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
CONTRACTOR SERVICES
1.1 Scope of Work. Contractor shall provide the Services to the City as described in Exhibit B
which is incorporated herein by reference. Contractor will submit all required forms and
information described in Exhibit A to the Purchasing Agent before providing Services.
1.2 General Contract Terms and Provisions. This Contract incorporates by reference the
General Contract Terms and Provisions, attached hereto as Exhibit C.
1.3 Contract Administrator. The Economic Development Department (Department) is the Contract
Administrator for this Agreement. Contractor shall provide the Services under the direction of a
designated representative of the Department as follows:
Christie Marcella
1200 Third Ave, Suite 1400
San Diego, CA 92101
(619) 236-6320
CMarcella@sandiego.gov
ARTICLE II
DURATION OF CONTRACT
2.1 Term. This Contract shall be for a period of three (3) years beginning on the Effective
Date. City may, in its sole discretion, extend this Contract for two (2) additional one (1) year
period(s). Unless otherwise terminated, this Contract shall be effective until completion of
the Scope of Services, but shall not exceed five years unless approved by ordinance under
Charter section 99.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 1
2.2 Effective Date. This Contract shall be effective on the date it is approved and signed by
the City Attorney under Charter Section 40.
ARTICLE III
COMPENSATION
3.1 Amount of Compensation. City shall pay Contractor for performance of all Services
rendered in accordance with this Contract in an amount not to exceed $
.
(The not to exceed amount will be added in this final Contract prior to the final execution of the
Contract by the City, with the Contractor's initials indicating acceptance.)
ARTICLE IV
WAGE REQUIREMENTS
4.1 Reserved.
ARTICLE V
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
5.1 Contract Documents. The following documents comprise the Contract between the City
and Contractor: this Contract and all exhibits thereto, the RFP; the Notice to Proceed; and the
City's written acceptance of exceptions or clarifications to the RFP, if any.
5.2 Contract Interpretation. The Contract Documents completely describe the Services to be
provided. Contractor will provide any Services that may reasonably be inferred from the
Contract Documents or from prevailing custom or trade usage as being required to produce
the intended result whether or not specifically called for or identified in the Contract
Documents. Words or phrases which have a well-known technical or construction industry
or trade meaning and are used to describe Services will be interpreted in accordance with
that meaning unless a definition has been provided in the Contract Documents.
5.3 Precedence. In resolving conflicts resulting from errors or discrepancies in any of the
Contract Documents, the Parties will use the order of precedence as set forth below. The 1st
document has the highest priority. Inconsistent provisions in the Contract Documents that
address the same subject, are consistent, and have different degrees of specificity, are not in
conflict and the more specific language will control. The order of precedence from highest to
lowest is as follows:
1st Any properly executed written amendment to the Contract
2ⁿᵈ The Contract
3ʳᵈ The RFP and the City's written acceptance of any exceptions or clarifications to
the RFP, if any
4th Contractor's Proposal, including pricing
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 2
5.4
Counterparts. This Contract may be executed in counterparts which, when taken
together, shall constitute a single signed original as though all Parties had executed the same
page.
5.5
Public Agencies. Other public agencies, as defined by California Government Code
section 6500, may choose to use the terms of this Contract, subject to Contractor's
acceptance. The City is not liable or responsible for any obligations related to a subsequent
Contract between Contractor and another public agency.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Contract is executed by City and Contractor acting by and
through their authorized officers.
CONTRACTOR
CITY OF SAN DIEGO
A Municipal Corporation
BY:
Proposer
Street Address
Print Name:
City
Title
Telephone No.
Date Signed
E-Mail
BY:
Approved as to form this
day of
Signature of
, 20
.
Proposer's Authorized
Representative
HEATHER FERBERT, City Attorney
BY:
Print Name
Deputy City Attorney
Title
Date
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 3
EXHIBIT A
PROPOSAL SUBMISSION AND REQUIREMENTS
A. PROPOSAL SUBMISSION
1. Timely Proposal Submittal. Proposals must be submitted as described herein to
the Purchasing & Contracting Department (P&C).
1.1 Reserved.
1.2 Paper Proposals. The City will accept paper proposals in lieu of eProposals.
Paper proposals must be submitted in a sealed envelope to the Purchasing & Contracting
Department (P&C) located at 1200 Third Avenue, Suite 200, San Diego, CA 92101. The
Solicitation Number and Closing Date must be referenced in the lower left-hand corner of
the outside of the envelope. Faxed proposals will not be accepted.
1.3 Proposal Due Date. Proposals must be submitted prior to the Closing Date
indicated on the eBidding System. E-mailed and/or faxed proposals will not be accepted.
1.4 Pre-Proposal Conference. No pre-proposal conference will be held for
RFP.
1.4.1 Reserved.
1.5 Questions and Comments. Written questions and comments must be
submitted electronically via the eBidding System no later than the date specified on the
eBidding System. Only written communications relative to the procurement shall be
considered. The City's eBidding System is the only acceptable method for submission of
questions. All questions will be answered in writing. The City will distribute questions and
answers without identification of the inquirer(s) to all proposers who are on record as having
received this RFP, via its eBidding System. No oral communications can be relied upon for
this RFP. Addenda will be issued addressing questions or comments that are determined by
the City to cause a change to any part of this RFP.
1.6 Contact with City Staff. Unless otherwise authorized herein, proposers who
are considering submitting a proposal in response to this RFP, or who submit a proposal in
response to this RFP, are prohibited from communicating with City staff about this RFP from
the date this RFP is issued until a contract is awarded.
2. Proposal Format and Organization. Unless electronically submitted, all proposals
should be securely bound and must include the following completed and executed forms and
information presented in the manner indicated below:
Tab A - Submission of Information and Forms.
2.1 Completed and signed Contract Signature Page. If any addenda are issued,
the latest Addendum Contract Signature Page is required.
2.2 Exceptions requested by proposer, if any. The proposer must present
written factual or legal justification for any exception requested to the Scope of Work, the
Contract, or the Exhibits thereto including, but not limited to, items for which solutions are
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 4
not fully compliant with IT City Standards. For each requested exception, proposers must
provide specific proposed alternative or amended language in the proposer's initial proposal
submittal for potential consideration.
It is not acceptable for proposers to take exception to terms or conditions in general, with a
request to later discuss or negotiate specific terms within the RFP / Contract. Nor is it
acceptable for proposals to refer to other contracts for alternative language in lieu of
providing specific alternative language in the proposal, as well. The City will not consider
exceptions addressed elsewhere in the proposal, nor will the City consider exceptions for
which no specific alternative or amended language is provided.
Any exceptions to the Contract that have not been accepted by the City in writing are deemed
rejected. The City, in its sole discretion, may accept some or all of proposer's exceptions,
reject proposer's exceptions, and deem the proposal non-responsive, or award the Contract
without proposer's proposed exceptions.
2.3 The Contractor Standards Pledge of Compliance Form.
2.4 Equal Opportunity Contracting forms including the Work Force Report and
Contractors Certification of Pending Actions.
2.5 Reserved.
2.6 Reserved.
2.7 Reserved.
2.8 Additional Information as required in Exhibit B.
2.9 Reserved.
2.10 Grant Management System Requirements Matrix - Exhibit E
2.11 City of San Diego IT City Standards & Technical Alignment Questionnaire
- Exhibit F
Tab B - Executive Summary and Responses to Specifications.
2.12 A title page.
2.13 A table of contents.
2.14 An executive summary, limited to one typewritten page, that provides a
high-level description of the proposer's ability to meet the requirements of the RFP and the
reasons the proposer believes itself to be best qualified to provide the identified services.
2.15 Proposer's response to the RFP.
2.16 An additional, redacted version of Proposer's response to the RFP
containing all requested redactions of confidential, proprietary or other information which
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 5
proposer alleges to be exempt from disclosure under the California Public Records Act,
including the legal basis for such exemption, as fully set forth in Exhibit A, Section 9. Public
Records below.
Tab C - Cost/Price Proposal (if applicable). Proposers shall submit a cost proposal in
the form and format described herein (Exhibit D). Failure to provide cost(s) in the form and
format requested may result in proposal being declared non-responsive and rejected.
3. Proposal Review. Proposers are responsible for carefully examining the RFP, the
Specifications, this Contract, and all documents incorporated into the Contract by reference
before submitting a proposal. If selected for award of contract, proposer shall be bound by
same unless the City has accepted proposer's exceptions, if any, in writing.
4. Addenda. The City may issue addenda to this RFP as necessary. All addenda are
incorporated into the Contract. The proposer is responsible for determining whether addenda
were issued prior to a proposal submission. Failure to respond to or properly address
addenda may result in rejection of a proposal.
5. Quantities. The estimated quantities provided by the City are not guaranteed.
These quantities are listed for informational purposes only. Quantities vary depending on the
demands of the City. Any variations from the estimated quantities shall not entitle the
proposer to an adjustment in the unit price or any additional compensation.
6. Quality. Unless otherwise required, all goods furnished shall be new and the best
of their kind.
6.1 Items Offered. Proposer shall state the applicable trade name, brand,
catalog, manufacturer, and/or product number of the required good, if any, in the proposal.
6.2 Brand Names. Any reference to a specific brand name in a solicitation is
illustrative only and describes a component best meeting the specific operational, design,
performance, maintenance, quality, or reliability standards and requirements of the City.
Proposer may offer an equivalent or equal in response to a brand name referenced (Proposed
Equivalent). The City may consider the Proposed Equivalent after it is subjected to testing
and evaluation which must be completed prior to the award of contract. If the proposer
offers an item of a manufacturer or vendor other than that specified, the proposer must
identify the maker, brand, quality, manufacturer number, product number, catalog number,
or other trade designation. The City has complete discretion in determining if a Proposed
Equivalent will satisfy its requirements. It is the proposer's responsibility to provide, at their
expense, any product information, test data, or other information or documents the City
requests to properly evaluate or demonstrate the acceptability of the Proposed Equivalent,
including independent testing, evaluation at qualified test facilities, or destructive testing.
7. Modifications, Withdrawals, or Mistakes. Proposer is responsible for verifying all
prices and extensions before submitting a proposal.
7.1 Modification or Withdrawal of Proposal Before Proposal Opening. Prior to
the Closing Date, the proposer or proposer's authorized representative may modify or
withdraw the proposal by providing written notice of the proposal modification or
withdrawal to the City Contact via the eBidding System. E-mail or telephonic withdrawals or
modifications are not permissible.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 6
7.2 Proposal Modification or Withdrawal of Proposal After Proposal Opening.
Any proposer who seeks to modify or withdraw a proposal because of the proposer's
inadvertent computational error affecting the proposal price shall notify the City Contact
identified on the eBidding System no later than three working days following the Closing
Date. The proposer shall provide worksheets and such other information as may be required
by the City to substantiate the claim of inadvertent error. Failure to do so may bar relief and
allow the City recourse from the bid surety. The burden is upon the proposer to prove the
inadvertent error. If, as a result of a proposal modification, the proposer is no longer the
apparent successful proposer, the City will award to the newly established apparent
successful proposer. The City's decision is final.
8. Incurred Expenses. The City is not responsible for any expenses incurred by
proposers in participating in this solicitation process.
9. Public Records. By submitting a proposal, the proposer acknowledges that any
information submitted in response to this RFP is a public record subject to disclosure unless
the City determines that a specific exemption in the California Public Records Act (CPRA)
applies. If the proposer submits information clearly marked confidential or proprietary, the
City may protect such information and treat it with confidentiality to the extent permitted by
law. However, it will be the responsibility of the proposer to provide to the City the specific
legal grounds on which the City can rely in withholding information requested under the
CPRA should the City choose to withhold such information. General references to sections of
the CPRA will not suffice. Rather, the proposer must provide a specific and detailed legal
basis, including applicable case law, that clearly establishes the requested information is
exempt from the disclosure under the CPRA. If the proposer does not provide a specific and
detailed legal basis for requesting the City to withhold proposer's confidential or proprietary
information at the time of proposal submittal, City will release the information as required
by the CPRA and proposer will hold the City, its elected officials, officers, and employees
harmless for release of this information. It will be the proposer's obligation to defend, at
proposer's expense, any legal actions or challenges seeking to obtain from the City any
information requested under the CPRA withheld by the City at the proposer's request.
Furthermore, the proposer shall indemnify and hold harmless the City, its elected officials,
officers, and employees from and against any claim or liability, and defend any action
brought against the City, resulting from the City's refusal to release information requested
under the CPRA which was withheld at proposer's request. Nothing in the Contract resulting
from this proposal creates any obligation on the part of the City to notify the proposer or
obtain the proposer's approval or consent before releasing information subject to disclosure
under the CPRA.
10. Right to Audit. The City Auditor may access proposer's records as described in San
Diego Charter section 39.2 to confirm contract compliance.
B. PRICING
1. Fixed Price. All prices shall be firm, fixed, fully burdened, FOB destination, and
include any applicable delivery or freight charges, and any other costs required to provide
the requirements as specified in this RFP. The lowest total estimated contract price of all the
proposals that meet the requirements of this RFP will receive the maximum assigned points
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 7
to this category as set forth in this RFP. The other price schedules will be scored based on
how much higher their total estimated contract prices compare with the lowest:
(1 - (contract price - lowest price) ) X maximum points = points received
lowest price
For example, if the lowest total estimated contract price of all proposals is $100, that
proposal would receive the maximum allowable points for the price category. If the total
estimated contract price of another proposal is $105 and the maximum allowable points is 60
points, then that proposal would receive (1 - ((105 - 100) / 100) X 60 = 57 points, or 95% of
the maximum points. The lowest score a proposal can receive for this category is zero points
(the score cannot be a negative number). The City will perform this calculation for each
Proposal.
2. Taxes and Fees. Taxes and applicable local, state, and federal regulatory fees
should not be included in the price proposal. Applicable taxes and regulatory fees will be
added to the net amount invoiced. The City is liable for state, city, and county sales taxes but
is exempt from Federal Excise Tax and will furnish exemption certificates upon request. All
or any portion of the City sales tax returned to the City will be considered in the evaluation of
proposals.
3. Escalation. An escalation factor is not allowed unless called for in this RFP. If
escalation is allowed, proposer must notify the City in writing in the event of a decline in
market price(s) below the proposal price. At that time, the City will make an adjustment in
the Contract or may elect to re-solicit.
4. Unit Price. Unless the proposer clearly indicates that the price is based on
consideration of being awarded the entire lot and that an adjustment to the price was made
based on receiving the entire proposal, any difference between the unit price correctly
extended and the total price shown for all items shall be offered shall be resolved in favor of
the unit price.
C. EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS
1. Award. The City shall evaluate each responsive proposal to determine which
proposal offers the City the best value consistent with the evaluation criteria set forth herein.
The proposer offering the lowest overall price will not necessarily be awarded a contract.
2. Sustainable Materials. Consistent with Council Policy 100-14, the City encourages
use of readily recyclable submittal materials that contain post-consumer recycled content.
3. Evaluation Process.
3.1 Process for Award. A City-designated evaluation committee (Evaluation
Committee) will evaluate and score all responsive proposals. The Evaluation Committee may
require proposer to provide additional written or oral information to clarify responses. Upon
completion of the evaluation process, the Evaluation Committee will recommend to the
Purchasing Agent that award be made to the proposer with the highest scoring proposal.
3.2 Reserved.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 8
3.3 Mandatory Interview/Oral Presentation. The City will require proposers to
interview and/or make an oral presentation if one or more proposals score within ten (10)
points or less of the proposal with the highest score. Only the proposer with the highest
scoring proposal and those proposers scoring within ten (10) points or less of the highest
scoring proposal will be asked to interview and/or make an oral presentation. Interviews
and/or oral presentations will be made to the Evaluation Committee in order to clarify the
proposals and to answer any questions. The interviews and/or oral presentations will be
scored as part of the selection process. The City will complete all reference checks prior to
any oral interview. Additionally, the Evaluation Committee may require proposer's key
personnel to interview. Interviews may be by telephone and/or in person. Multiple interviews
may be required. Proposers are required to complete their oral presentation and/or
interviews within seven (7) workdays after the City's request. Proposers should be prepared
to discuss and substantiate any of the areas of the proposal submitted, as well as proposer's
qualifications to furnish the subject goods and services. Proposer is responsible for any costs
incurred for the oral presentation and interview of the key personnel.
3.4 Discussions/Negotiations. The City has the right to accept the proposal that
serves the best interest of the City, as submitted, without discussion or negotiation.
Contractors should, therefore, not rely on having a chance to discuss, negotiate, and adjust
their proposals. The City may negotiate the terms of a contract with the winning proposer
based on the RFP and the proposer's proposal, or award the contract without further
negotiation.
3.5 Inspection. The City reserves the right to inspect the proposer's equipment
and facilities to determine if the proposer is capable of fulfilling this Contract. Inspection
will include, but not limited to, survey of proposer's physical assets and financial capability.
Proposer, by signing the proposal agrees to the City's right of access to physical assets and
financial records for the sole purpose of determining proposer's capability to perform the
Contract. Should the City conduct this inspection, the City reserves the right to disqualify a
proposer who does not, in the City's judgment, exhibit the sufficient physical and financial
resources to perform this Contract.
3.6 Evaluation Criteria. The following elements represent the evaluation criteria
that will be considered during the evaluation process:
MAXIMUM
EVALUATION
POINTS
A. Responsiveness to the RFP.
1. Requested information included and thoroughness of response.
2. Understanding of the project and ability to deliver as exhibited in the
20
Executive Summary.
3. Technical Aspects.
4. Risk Profile (e.g. exceptions request).
B. Staffing Plan.
1. Qualifications of personnel adequate for requirement.
2. Description of the Contractor's history, mission, location(s), date founded,
20
size, key leadership and relevant certifications.
3. List of names and titles of key managers who will be assigned to this project.
4. Description of the company and/or key managers' experience and knowledge
of local and federal regulations related to CDBG, ESG, and HOME.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 9
MAXIMUM
EVALUATION
POINTS
5. Method of Quality Assurance, Compliance with applicable laws, Internal
Control Procedures.
6. Availability/Geographical location of personnel for required tasks
7. Customer Service/ Capacity to provide timely response to City and
subrecipients.
C. Contractor's Capability to provide the services and expertise and Past
Performance.
1. Relevant experience of the Contractor and subcontractors in working with
governmental agencies.
2. Fulfillment of City of San Diego IT requirements
35
3. Specific experience with Federal reporting and ability to integrate to Federal
reporting systems.
4. Other applicable pertinent experience.
5. Past/Prior Performance including timely execution of go-live.
6. Provide three (3) examples of successfully delivered SaaS/IT projects
including project name and description, scope of work and deliverables, and
key technical outcomes and successes.
7. List of government contracts performed that are related to SaaS/IT within the
past five (5) years.
8. Capacity/Capability to meet The City of San Diego needs in a timely manner.
9. Reference checks.
D. Price.
10
E. Interview/Oral Presentation.
1. Usability of Software
2. Support Model
15
3. Real Time Operation including demonstration of the software meeting key
requirements
4. Thoroughness and Clarity of Presentation
SUB TOTAL MAXIMUM EVALUATION POINTS:
100
F. Participation by Small Local Business Enterprise (SLBE) or Emerging Local
12
Business Enterprise (ELBE) Firms*
FINAL MAXIMUM EVALUATION POINTS INCLUDING SLBE/ELBE:
112
*The City shall apply a maximum of an additional 12 percentage points to the proposer's final score for
SLBE OR ELBE participation. Refer to Equal Opportunity Contracting Form, Section V.
4. Rejection of All Proposals. The City may reject any and all proposals when to do so is in
the City's best interests.
D. ANNOUNCEMENT OF AWARD
1. Award of Contract. The City will inform all proposers of its intent to award a
Contract in writing.
2. Obtaining Proposal Results. No solicitation results can be obtained until the City
announces the proposal or proposals best meeting the City's requirements. Proposal results
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 10
may be obtained by: (1) e-mailing a request to the City Contact identified on the eBidding
System or (2) visiting the P&C eBidding System to review the proposal results. To ensure an
accurate response, requests should reference the Solicitation Number. Proposal results will
not be released over the phone.
3. Multiple Awards. City may award more than one contract by awarding separate
items or groups of items to various proposers. Awards will be made for items, or
combinations of items, which result in the lowest aggregate price and/or best meet the City's
requirements. The additional administrative costs associated with awarding more than one
Contract will be considered in the determination.
E. PROTESTS. The City's protest procedures are codified in Chapter 2, Article 2, Division 30
of the San Diego Municipal Code (SDMC). These procedures provide unsuccessful proposers
with the opportunity to challenge the City's determination on legal and factual grounds. The
City will not consider or otherwise act upon an untimely protest.
F. SUBMITTALS REQUIRED UPON NOTICE OF INTENT TO AWARD. The successful proposer
is required to submit the following documents to P&C within ten (10) business days from the
date on the Notice of Intent to Award letter:
1. Insurance Documents. Evidence of all required insurance, including all required
endorsements, as specified in Article VII of the General Contract Terms and Provisions.
2. Taxpayer Identification Number. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations
require the City to have the correct name, address, and Taxpayer Identification Number
(TIN) or Social Security Number (SSN) on file for businesses or persons who provide goods or
services to the City. This information is necessary to complete Form 1099 at the end of each
tax year. To comply with IRS regulations, the City requires each Contractor to provide a Form
W-9 prior to the award of a Contract.
3. Business Tax Certificate. Unless the City Treasurer determines a business is
exempt, all businesses that contract with the City must have a current business tax
certificate.
4. Reserved.
5. Reserved.
The City may find the proposer to be non-responsive and award the Contract to the next
highest scoring responsible and responsive proposer if the apparent successful proposer fails
to timely provide the required information or documents.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 11
EXHIBIT B
SCOPE OF WORK
A.
BACKGROUND
The Economic Development Department (EDD) is seeking proposals from qualified proposers
to provide a software solution to streamline and enhance our department's ability to manage
and track local and federal grants and funding programs as part of the City of San Diego's
(City) ongoing efforts to improve its grants management and grant administration
processes. The Grant Management System (GMS) will be a Software as a Service (SaaS)
solution that shall have the ability to manage grants and funding programs, track progress
of related activities, and process various types of programs with differing workflows. The
solution shall also have a public facing portal where grant recipients external to the City of
San Diego are able to manage information, submit applications for funding and related
documents, execute agreements, submit requests for payments, provide outcomes and data
including grant closeout information.
Currently, the City is seeking a SaaS solution to assist with the following programs:
1. The Business Districts program is comprised of 10 Maintenance Assessment Districts
(MADs), 1 Property and Business Improvement District (PBID) and 17 Business
Improvement Districts (BIDs) by which the EDD holds roughly 30 contracts with 20
nonprofit organizations (exact contract numbers may change) to manage services and
improvements funded by assessments.
a) Grant agreement administration and reporting and reimbursement processing
is currently done via cloud-based Microsoft programs (i.e. Excel, Word,
Sharepoint) and SeamlessDocs.
b) These programs are governed by the San Diego Maintenance Assessment
District Enabling Ordinance (San Diego Municipal Code sections 65.0201-
65.0222), Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994 (California
Streets and Highways Code $36600-36671), Article XIIID of the California
Constitution, and the Proposition 218 Omnibus Implementation Act (California
Government Code sections 53753-53758).
c) The SaaS solution shall have the functionality to manage the reimbursement
packet workflow (including, but not limited to: tracking status, routing to
multiple reviewers through approval stages, and logging all defined financials
and data), track and manage grant-related contracts, store and organize grant
related documents, track budgets and expenditures, and provide reports on
program Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) including, but not limited to:
businesses served, trees maintained, event attendance, and percent of budget
expended.
2. The Community Development Programs include state funding but primarily consists
of federal Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funding including Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG), Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG), and HOME
Investment Partnership Program (HOME). Funding and reporting for these programs
is currently managed in a Salesforce-backed reporting system; the grant life cycle
workflow from RFQ through grant closeout would need to be matched for consistency
with the current grant workflow. Functional details of the workflow are provided
below and included in Exhibit E - Grant Management System Requirements Matrix.
Annually, the City awards 20-30 agreements through a competitive process for the
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 1
Community Development programs, directly awards up to 10 contracts via
administrative agreements, manages internal City Capital Improvement Projects
(CIPs), and runs a competitive award for affordable housing development.
a) The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program is authorized
under Title 1 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, Public
Law 93-383, as amended 42 U.S.C. 5301. Locally, the program is governed by
Council Policy 700-02.
b) The SaaS solution shall have the functionality to host a Request for
Qualifications (RFQ), Request for Proposal(s)(RFP), application review, panel
review of applications including scoring rubrics and access for external
evaluators, monthly programmatic reporting, monthly financial reporting,
ability for amendments, a process to close out the project, and audit
functionality.
3. Capacity Building and other competitive grant programs are comprised of managing
fewer than 50 contracts with non-profit partners based on available annual funding.
There is a competitive process for these funds and evaluators may be internal (same
domain) or external reviewers. The SaaS shall have similar functionality to the
Community Development Programs whereby external organizations apply and submit
documentation and if selected, can manage their grant through the proposed
solution.
Through the implementation of a SaaS-based grants management solution, the City is
looking to benefit from the latest technologies and our goal of providing:
a) An intuitive user interface that allows for easy system navigation for public
and external users with varying levels of digital literacy.
b) A system with minimal configuration to meet consistent grant management
life cycle workflow management across multiple programs.
c) Integrated user-friendly query, reporting and dashboard tools.
d) Compliance and alignment with State and Federal regulations, mandates and
reporting needs.
e) Seamless end-to-end cycle for each grant from application through close-out
with both programmatic and fiscal reporting.
f) Robust user role and system administrator functionality.
g) Integration with third-party providers and software such as SAP, MS365, and
Adobe.
h) 24/7 system availability.
B. PROJECT APPROACH
The City of San Diego seeks a comprehensive, turn-key solution whereby all aspects,
required functions, and modules of the proposed system are operable when implementation
is completed (go-live). The City will coordinate with the selected Contractor to determine an
appropriate deployment schedule based on factors such as:
1. Alignment with other technology initiatives.
2. Change management impacts to employees.
3. Coordination with participating and/or affected departments.
An objective of the project is to find commonality and efficiencies across programs while
maintaining respective reporting and compliance needs. As such, proposals should include
examples of process improvements in project implementations.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 2
C. ADA COMPLIANCE
The content on all websites and web applications created, bought, leased, or otherwise
employed by the City of San Diego for public use shall meet the Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA and any successive WCAG guidelines most current at the
time of application. X. Solution must also adhere to the Voluntary Product Accessibility
Template and section 508 requirements to make software accessible for users with
disabilities.
D. SPECIFICATIONS
The City of San Diego will only consider Proposals for implementing a GMS software solution
that is a vendor-hosted, subscription-based SaaS system.
Proposers are encouraged to identify the significant characteristics of their solution and why
it best suits the needs of the Economic Development Department.
1. Responsiveness to RFP
a) Requested information included and thoroughness of response.
1. The proposal must be a complete document and include everything outlined in
Exhibit A - Proposal Submission and Requirements, Exhibit B - Scope of Work,
Exhibit D - Price Proposal, Exhibit E- Grant Management System Requirements
Matrix, and Exhibit F - IT City Standards and Technical Alignment.
2. Must include a staffing plan, qualifications submittal, draft implementation plan,
draft implementation schedule, and draft outline documents explained in this
section. These can be included in the response or provided as attachments.
b) Understanding of the project and ability to deliver as exhibited in the Executive
Summary.
1. Executive summary shall demonstrate knowledge and experience with grant
management systems that satisfy state and federal mandates.
2. Provide experience implementing a SaaS/IT system that supports multiple
programs or departments with distinct workflows, reporting requirements, and
operational needs.
c) Understanding of HUD regulations and requirements to ensure that Federal
requirements are built into the SaaS solution and not customized.
d) Software performance history.
1. The Proposer shall demonstrate capability by providing proof of prior similar
work with at least 10 cities, states, or other public agencies. At least 2 examples
shall be used by a municipality of similar size and complexity. Implementations
within the last five (5) years are strongly preferred.
2. Sample cases are required to show the business processes practiced by the other
municipalities, demonstrate functionality across program and financial reporting
needs, and demonstrate key or unique functionality of the proposed system in
effectively managing multiple sources of grant funding.
2. Project Team
a) The proposal will include clearly defined Roles/Responsibilities of personnel with a
clear organizational structure.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 3
b) The Proposer must identify a single point of contact for all contract management
activities. The Proposer's Project Manager's name and resume must be submitted
with the proposal. The successful Proposer must not change the Project Manager
without written City of San Diego approval.
c) The Proposer's Organization Chart must include all proposed personnel, including the
supervisor level, functional responsibilities, key personnel and other staff members
who will be involved in the project, and the percentage of time dedicated to the
project. Proposers shall describe their commitment to ensuring the project team's
composition will remain consistent throughout the implementation phase. The
project team cannot be substituted or staff added without prior notice and acceptance
by the City/Economic Development Department.
d) Summary of Key Personnel. The proposer must provide a summary of the key
personnel who will be dedicated to providing the services described in this
solicitation. At a minimum, the Proposer must identify the Project Manager, Lead
Business Analyst(s), Training Manager, and System Lead. For each person identified,
describe the following information:
1. Their title and reporting responsibility.
2. Their proposed role in this project, including the functions and tasks for which
they will have prime responsibility (also indicate areas of secondary responsibility
if appropriate).
3. Their pertinent areas of expertise and experience (particularly for GMS
implementation projects).
4. The location where they will provide the services (local or remote).
e) Project Team Resumes. The Proposer must include brief resumes for key personnel
assigned to the project. The project manager would ideally have experience
implementing a similar solution for other large municipalities. Each project team
resume shall be formatted similarly and contain the following content:
1. Brief overview of their professional career.
2. Professional background highlighting relevant projects that have been completed
and their role(s) in each project.
3. Educational background.
4. Publications (if applicable).
5. Professional activities and certifications.
3. Project Management & Service Level Requirements
Proposers should have experience in project execution and support staff that include project
managers to ensure the project delivers the scope, schedule and budget as agreed upon in the
executed contract.
a) Qualifications, Experience, and Staffing Plan
A staffing plan and a submittal of qualifications will be required in the response. The
staffing plan and submittal of qualifications must include the following:
1. Company Overview: The Proposer must include a company summary
including company history, office location(s), company size (how many
personnel are part of the software development team, implementation
team, and support team), financial statements, and statement of technical
areas of expertise. The Proposer must be able to substantiate to the
satisfaction of the City that the Proposer has sufficient resources to
complete the project. (If the Proposer is not the software provider, then the
proposer must submit this for both their company and the company
proposing to implement the software.)
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 4
2. References: The Proposer must provide three (3) references from clients who have
had similar scopes of work and requirements. References must be within the last
five (5) years. An alternative point of contact for each reference shall be listed
with a phone number and email address whenever possible. References must
include the following information:
Reference #
Name of Organization
Address
Contact Name
Contact Telephone Number
Email address
Date Work Undertaken
Nature of Assignment
Business Benefits Realized
Environmental Benefits Accrued (optional)
User-focused design experience/industry awards
References will be verified as part of the standard City procurement process.
If contact with the referenced contact person or an alternative who knows the
Proposer is not made after reasonable attempts during the designated evaluation
period, the reference will be classified as unsatisfactory. All attempts to contact a
referenced client will be documented, including the date and time of the attempt.
3. Availability/Geographical location of personnel for required tasks. The Staffing
plan will also indicate the hours staff may be reached, their method of contact,
and the level of effort required for them to come to the site, if applicable.
b) Project Management Approach
The City requires the primary (or prime) Contractor to provide extensive project
management for implementing the GMS solution. The Contractor is expected to
guarantee the successful, timely completion of those aspects of the project over which
it has control. Proposers must provide a project plan for achieving the project's
objectives, including an explanation of the role of all partners, the role of the City's
staff (including time commitment), and an overall project timeline. A description of a
proposed team structure (including an organizational team chart), listing key
personnel functions, staffing profiles, and responsibilities to cover the software and
implementation, as well as training and support, shall also be included. The detailed
plan must thoroughly discuss how the Proposer will successfully implement the GMS
requirements. Please include a copy of a plan utilizing Microsoft Project or equivalent
software.
The prime Contractor shall provide a qualified Project Manager (PM) who will be
responsible for overseeing all aspects of the services to implement the GMS solution
and who serves as the Contractor's primary contact for the management and
administration of the project. The Contractor shall not replace the PM without prior
written approval by the City. The primary duties of the PM include, but are not
limited to:
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 5
1. Creating, providing and updating a project management plan and master project
schedule with identified milestones and a work breakdown structure of
deliverables.
2. Collaborate with the Department of IT's Governance team and bring the project
into planning, design and change management gates. These gates can help ensure
requirements are met, which aligns with the industry's best practices.
c) Configuration, Implementation, Testing & Acceptance
The Contractor will detail for the City the potential configuration options available to
meet the requirements. In addition, the Contractor will produce a configuration
document as a project deliverable before the system's final configuration.
The Contractor will be required to configure all necessary proposed functionality for
the City and is expected to work closely with the City's functional experts to finalize
the configurations and transfer knowledge. The Contractor will also be required to
provide a testing strategy and plan (including scripts) as a project deliverable to the
City. The City will sign off on the final testing plan before executing tests.
The Contractor shall provide three system environments: development/configuration,
testing/training, and production. The selected Contractor will work with the City to
ensure that the system is functioning at the appropriate level of performance at the
time of go-live.
d) Project Schedule
Due to sunsetting of the existing system, the desired go-live date for a new solution
is July 1, 2026. Proposers should provide a project schedule with key milestones from
the project approach associated with proposed dates to meet the desired go-live date.
e) Training
Training will be a required element for internal staff as well as our external users.
Contractor will be expected to provide a combination of virtual and on-site training
and provide training documentation and comprehensive user guides. Quick reference
guides and FAQs are also encouraged. Contractors should include training programs,
curriculum and examples of training materials as part of the Proposal.
The Contractor shall provide trained and experienced instructor(s) and ensure that
they do not perform other duties during the training period that will interfere with
instruction. Instructors will provide a survey to trainees to evaluate presentation and
course materials for effective feedback to the City.
Instructor-Led Training. The selected Contractor shall provide thorough training for the
designated number of people in the following areas. Contractor shall specify the
duration for each of these training sessions:
End-User Training (Up to 75 staff). End-user training will be focused on
functional positions and workflow processes specific to grant programs and
fiscal teams. All personnel in a specific functional position will be trained on
the system's use to meet their needs. To ensure that end users are qualified
to use the proposed solution, the Contractor shall develop training classes
during which an instructor shall use software and training guides to teach
end-to-end system functionality.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 6
Functional System Administrator Training (Up to 10 staff). Individuals
responsible for system administration such as configuration, security and
audit management, system troubleshooting, integration/interface creation,
and client-defined/maintained functionality.
External-User Training (Up to 200 non-profit professionals). External training
will be focused on members of the public who have applied for or previously
received grant funding to be able to manage their work in the selected
system.
4. Support, Documentation & Service Level Requirements
Proposers are expected to meet the criteria below in addition to what is outlined in Exhibit
F - IT City Standards and Technical Alignment.
a) Remote Helpdesk Staff-Support Services
The Contractor will provide hours of Tier One and Tier Two Help Desk support while
remotely utilizing existing resources to handle all software related user questions as
well as to provide remote diagnostics. These resources will be available Monday
through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (PT), excluding federal holidays. Calls relating
to how to use the application will be reconciled by Tier One Help Desk support. Tier
Two support will be an escalation resource for more complex problems not easily
solved by Tier One support. Remote resources will be available to both internal and
external users. Experience working with nonprofit organizations is desirable.
Contractors should include detailed support service levels, including initial response
times and average resolutions times as part of their proposal.
b) Uptime Availability
Contractor will warrant that the SaaS solution will be available to be accessed by the
City at least 99.9% (Uptime Availability) of each calendar month during the Service
Period.
1. Uptime Availability Remuneration. Where Contractor fails to meet the Uptime
Availability Service Level, then City is entitled to claim the following prorated
Service Credits against the annual Subscription Fee:
≥ 99.7% but <99.9% = 10% of prorated monthly Subscription Fee.
≥ 99.5% but <99.7% = 15% of prorated monthly Subscription Fee.
< 99.5% = 25% of prorated monthly Subscription Fee.
2. Service Credits Calculation. Uptime Availability will be calculated monthly by
Proposer and such calculation will be deemed binding on the parties in absence of
manifest error. Uptime availability is calculated based on the following formula:
UA = (T - M - D) / (T - M) X 100% where UA = Uptime Availability, T = Total
Monthly Minutes, M = Schedule Maintenance Minutes, and D = Downtime
Minutes. When calculating any service level, any failure to meet the Service Level
that is directly or indirectly caused by any one or more of the following items
shall not constitute a failure of the Service Level:
i. Scheduled Maintenance;
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 7
ii. Any unlawful, negligent or willful act or omission by City, City's Agents,
contractors or invitees or any other person; and
iii. Any Force Majeure event.
3. Scheduled Maintenance. Before scheduling any system downtime, Contractor will
inquire with the City about the timing and only schedule the downtime upon
reaching agreement with the City about the time and duration.
4. Hosting Facility Services. Contractor assumes all responsibility for the computing
environment supporting the hosted applications.
5. Application Administration. Applications provided under this agreement will be
the responsibility of Contractor. Contractor will own and manage the application,
related databases, supporting computing hardware, and necessary operating
systems.
6. Application Recovery. Contractor will provide the following recovery services:
i.
Hosting Infrastructure and environment recovery processes;
ii.
Application recovery processes; and
iii.
Offsite data backup storage and periodic testing of data backups.
7. Network Services. Contractor is responsible for providing adequate network
infrastructure to meet the performance metrics specified in this Agreement. City
is responsible for providing adequate internal network infrastructure so as to not
affect the Contractor's ability to meet those performance metrics. City is
responsible for the support, maintenance, and monitoring of the City's dedicated
LAN and or WAN. Contractor bears no responsibility for performance and
availability problems on networks within the City's control.
c) Ongoing Support
Ongoing support and maintenance should be explained, both for the programmatic
and technical (IT) user perspective. Upgrade schedules, bug testing, and ongoing
requirements for City staff or systems users should be explained. Time commitments
and frequency of staffing needs should be clearly outlined. Proposal should clearly
outline what system, if any, internal and external users would be required to adhere
to in order to seek support using the system. Any additional opportunities and
associated costs such as community user groups, conferences, or other training
opportunities to learn and adopt best practices or maximize utilization of the system
should be provided as part of the proposal.
d) Software Support and Warranty
The City is exclusively interested in implementing a SaaS solution. Maintenance and
support shall be included in the contract between the selected Proposer and the City.
Maintenance support will not commence until the application has been placed in
production and accepted by the City in writing. Maintenance support must provide
ongoing system support and maintenance, including upgrades, bug fixes, and
patches, as well as other technical support necessary for City staff to operate the
solution, including help desk support on general system use, configuration settings,
reporting, etc.
The Contractor shall warranty the entire solution/system for the duration of the
contract terms from the date the City fully accepts it.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 8
e) Software/System Documentation
The selected Proposer will provide detailed system and user documentation to City
staff responsible for the operation and support of the system. The selected Proposer
shall provide the City with digital, searchable technical and user manuals. The
selected Proposer will also provide the City with complete digital, searchable system
implementation documentation concerning installation, configuration, testing,
interfaces, and data conversion. The selected Proposer shall also provide PDF copies
of all relevant documentation and unlimited downloads of updated copies of the
information.
The selected Proposer shall provide system documents that describe all software in
sufficient technical and functional detail no later than the go-live date so City
personnel can use this information to maintain the system and resolve identified
problems.
5. SaaS Functional Requirements
Detailed specifications can be found in the attached Exhibit E - - Grant Management System
Requirements Matrix. The City does not expect a single solution to meet all the
requirements. The Proposer must indicate in their submission of the Exhibit E scores for
each requirement as defined in Table 1: Requirements Scoring Rubric:
Table 1: Requirements Scoring Rubric
Score
Description
o
Cannot be provided/accommodated
1
Supported via a third-party solution
2
Can be achieved with customization of software that changes the source code
of the system or is anticipated in a future release
3
Can be achieved but requires configuration by the vendor
4
Out of the box configurable by City staff
Proposers may use the "Vendor/Proposer Notes" column in Exhibit E to provide additional or
clarifying information.
For the section below, any mention of internal users would be City staff with an email
domain consistent with the City. External users are either: users applying for or managing (if
awarded) grant funding from EDD OR evaluators that are reviewing funding applications.
Contractor is not required to meet all of the requirements listed in Exhibit E; however, the
Contractor must meet the following functionality items:
a) Application Intake & Management (external and internal users).
1. The initiation of a competitive grant agreement with the EDD typically begins
with an application from an external user. A necessary feature of the grant
management solution is an application functionality within the system that has
multiple stages as part of the workflow and the ability to handle multiple intake
processes for separate grant programs.
i.
For some programs, the application is split into two phases: First Phase
Request for Qualifications (RFQs) - Organizations will need to upload secure
data for review including Audited Financial Statements and other PDFs. The
SaaS solution shall have a document repository functionality with the
ability to store the uploaded information (i.e., general profile information,
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 9
current Board of Directors, address, census tract, relevant staff members
and other as needed information) for future reference. The function of the
RFQ is to create a baseline of information that can be built on throughout
the rest of the grant workflow.
ii.
Second Phase Multi-Step Internal Review - The SaaS solution shall have
the capacity for the RFQs to be assigned to different reviewers for a two-
phase review. SaaS functionality shall include the ability to leave comments,
answer specific questions and advance the application to the next step for
review and/or advance the application to the next phase of the application
process.
2. Once applicants are deemed qualified, applicants are then invited to submit a
Request for Proposal (RFP). Throughout the RFP application process, the SaaS
solution shall have the ability to host multiple external users from the same
organization, and the users shall be able to log in to the system to work on the
same application, concurrently. For single step competitive grant programs,
applications begin at this phase (without the RFQ process).
3. Organizations must be able to manage organizational data, including:
identification of one authorized user who has the authority to submit the RFQ,
RFP, and any monthly reports. Typically, the process to determine the authorized
signatory is conducted outside of the system. The SaaS solution shall be able to be
updated to reflect that only one person may submit. If changes need to be made,
authorized signatory should be able to change with a request from the
organization. Other organizational data to be maintained and managed would be
user access associated with the organization and organization-wide documents
such as IRS-exemption letters, audited financials, etc.
4. The SaaS shall have a grant application module or template that different
programs can work with to build the narrative questions of each application that
may differ between programs and then also between grant cycles or years. Key
data points from the RFQ stage of the grant life cycle should be able to be pulled
into the RFP stage of the life cycle.
5. The SaaS solution shall be able to intake a variety of data formats (long text, short
text, dropdown, numerical, currency, date, etc.) with the ability to associate and
report on data based on any configured field, whether out-of-the-box or
customized.
6. The SaaS solution shall be able to move an application through various stages of
review (i.e., RFQ to RFP to external review) and allow for external reviewers to take
part in the established workflow. Depending on the application type, external
reviewers may be City staff or users without a City domain email address.
7. SaaS shall have the capability to record application scores in the system and
support different scoring rubrics for different programs.
8. SaaS shall have the ability to automatically tally and average scores based on
scores provided by individual reviewers.
iii.
On certain applications, the scores will need to include the points allocated
during an internal staff review score as well.
b) Document Management
1. The SaaS solution shall retain any and all documents uploaded as a part of the
grant life cycle. Additionally, updated documentation may be required during
project execution. Any contract compliance documentation can be uploaded into
the project view. If there are multiple projects for one organization, documents
are able to be sectioned out by project.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 10
2. Reports such as scoring results and records audits shall be exportable as pdfs or
other documents directly from the system for transparency with the public and
other stakeholders.
3. Within the reporting functionality, external users will be able to upload
attachments by budget category or within financial functionality of the system
(can require documentation be submitted for each category).
4. Upload individual documents at any/multiple points in a workflow and combined
files in the following formats: pdf, jpeg or other image, video, .docx, .xlsx, .pptx
5. The SaaS solution shall allow document downloading in a public-friendly format
and manner for records retention. Documents must be able to be retained in the
system according to EDD's document retention policy.
6. The SaaS solution shall support a document library where clients can download
latest cover sheets, instructions, reference guides, contract documents, videos and
other system support materials and where internal users can update and replace
documents with most recent versions.
7. The SaaS solution shall have the ability to host a directory of templates for
downloading by external users and templates that can be updated by certain
designated users.
c) Financial and Billing Functions
1. The SaaS solution must have functionality to receive monthly requests for
reimbursements from awarded organizations. These requests would consist of a
combination of user provided data and uploading supporting materials to justify
the reimbursement request, track expenditures across budget categories, and
make budget adjustments as needed.
2. The SaaS solution shall allow internal users to flag budget category discrepancies,
allows external users to correct and resubmit materials, and will correctly
recalculate new totals based off of the finalized information.
3. The SaaS solution shall allow budget adjustments by user type and notify client on
status of request. Allows changes to numerical budget field and corresponding
narrative fields.
4. Allows customizable fiscal review workflow depending on program type.
5. The SaaS solution shall have the functionality to generate an invoice, including
the invoice date and allow ability for internal user to add custom data fields to
capture necessary invoice details. Vendor system must be able to interface with
the City's SAP/FICA system.
d) Reporting and Compliance
1. The SaaS solution shall generate real time budget to actual expenditures;
remaining balance, projected spend and tracks burn rate or percentage of budget
utilized.
2. The SaaS solution shall have the functionality to create visual analytics reports
(pie charts, bar grafts, trend lines) that can be changed at the individual user level
based on a variety of data fields (organization-wide, program-wide, etc.) that can
be exported to PowerPoint, Word, and Adobe.
3. The SaaS solution shall allow internal users to see real-time data with ability to
customize what data is shown. Shows financial reporting across all approved
grants for a program by fiscal year, by contract, organization, or vendor.
4. The SaaS solution shall have the ability for an external grant recipient to initiate a
workflow request (such as budget revision, etc.) with communications captured
within the record audit.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 11
5. The SaaS solution shall have audit log functionality that complies with Federal
funding guidelines and regulations (specifically HUD).
6. The SaaS solution shall provide City staff and auditors with the ability to view log
of changes made to a record.
7. The SaaS solution shall be able to pull report of all emails related to a project,
program, organization or systemwide.
e) Integration & Data Migration
1. The SaaS solution shall have the capacity to integrate with relevant City/HUD
supported systems. Ideally the SaaS solution will integrate with ArcGIS, IDIS, SAP,
and OKTA. Contractors should provide in requirements response which
integrations are out-of-the-box and which require customization.
2. Sources of data that need to be migrated into the selected system include, but are
not limited to, individual project files hosted in Microsoft SharePoint, Seamless
Docs and Salesforce backed programs.
3. Proposals shall include the necessary process for migrating the grant data and
files from the existing systems. This includes indexing and integrating existing
content into the new system and the process any requirements to customize or
design the navigation structure.
4. Contractor can provide specialized project management and guidance on
appropriate approach to integrating the data, including estimated timelines. EDD
fiscal staff and IT will be available to liaise with selected contractor following
procurement in order to ensure all City standards are met.
f) User Roles & System Administration
1. The SaaS solution shall be able to support a variety of user roles from view-only
to full system access. User roles should be able to be designated at a specific
record type level. Proposing contractors should detail how user roles are set up
and what levels and kinds of access (i.e.,- fiscal transaction changes, delete
records, change fields) can be restricted at what level of user role.
2. Testing grant applications, scoring rubrics and workflows before each funding
opportunity is made available shall be achievable with internal users.
3. The SaaS solution shall support the ability for external users to be able to apply
for multiple programs of funding and be able to see information across programs
based on their user role.
4. The SaaS solution shall provide an ability for communication within the system
between internal and external users that are part of the audit trail.
5. The SaaS solution shall have the ability to send email notifications to users
throughout the grant life cycle (automated or manual). Automated examples
include deadlines to submit information, expiration of organizational documents
(e.g.- insurance)
i.
The SaaS solution shall have error functions that will stop a workflow from
moving forward. Example would be a non-designated user attempting to
submit a request for reimbursement.
ii.
The SaaS solution shall have functionality to assign or re-assign tasks in
bulk from one user to another for a given period of time or to transfer all
tasks permanently from one user to another.
6. Technical Requirements
The Proposer must complete Exhibit F - IT City Standards and Technical Alignment.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 12
7. Licensing Requirements
The Proposer should detail how licenses are deployed within the proposed SaaS solution and
should use Exhibit D - Price Proposal to develop the Cost Proposal submission. The following
licensing requirements shall apply:
a) System User Software License Agreements. Proposer shall provide a copy of all
System User software license agreements that they will be requesting the City to
execute. The license agreements should address all software components
including third-party software, base system software provided by the Proposer,
and custom software developed specifically for this project. The software license
agreements provided should be the actual documents (or exact duplicates) of the
forms used for this project, not a typical sample document.
b) Licensing Model. Proposer shall clearly indicate the nature of their Solution's
licensing model (i.e., Named User, Concurrent User, Flat Subscription, or volume-
based metrics [e.g., transactions, unlimited 'enterprise' style licensing or named
licenses]).
c) License Transfer. Solution licensing must be easily transferred by a City
administrator, should the need occur (e.g., member of staff leaves the
organization).
d) Licensing Volume Changes. Solution must allow the City to increase or decrease
its licensing requirements through the duration of the contract.
e) Unused Licensing Volume. Solution must allow the City to 'roll-over' unused
licensing (e.g., transactions into subsequent contract terms, should the City
choose to exercise its right to extend the Contract term).
f) Overage Costs. Solution must clearly describe the circumstances and thresholds (if
any) under which the City may become liable for overage costs (e.g., exceeding
bandwidth, storage, transactions, etc.,).
g) Not-to-Diminish Rights. Any resulting Agreement between the City and Proposer
will ensure that the functionalities of the Solution purchased, irrespective of
whether it has been purchased as a set of more than one software product
supplied as a single price, will be retained for the duration of the Agreement,
inclusive of any agreed extensions. Any resulting incremental unitary purchases
of Software will be made against the same Software originally purchased under
this Agreement.
h) Third Party Use. Proposer will grant City a non-exclusive license during the
Contract Term to install and/or execute Solution on machines operated by or for
City solely to facilitate City's authorized access to and use of the acquired
Solution. City's primary third-party information technology service providers
shall have access to and use of the Solution solely to provide support for City's
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 13
internal business use.
E.
DATA SECURITY
Contractor Certification. The contractor certifies that it will always implement and comply
with the most current City of San Diego Data Security Standards. The contractor will
immediately notify the City if it undergoes, or has reason to believe that it will undergo, an
adverse change resulting in the loss of compliance with the City's Data Security Standards.
Notification Requirements. The contractor shall immediately notify the City's Chief
Information Security Officer of any breach of the City's Data Security Standards. All
notifications and required compliance documents regarding Data Security Standards shall be
sent to:
Chief Information Security Officer
1010 2nd Avenue, Suite 500
San Diego, CA 92101
Cybersecurity@sandiego.gov
619-533-4840
Indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, and
employees from and against any claims, loss, damages, or other harm related to a data
security breach or the Contractor's failure to maintain compliance with the City of San Diego
data security standards.
F.
DEPARTMENT REPRESENTATIVE. The Department Representative for this Contract
is identified in the notice of award and is responsible for overseeing and monitoring this
Contract.
G.
ADDITIONAL INSURANCE
1. Cyber Liability Insurance. The contractor shall provide a copy of all System User software
license agreements they will request the City to execute. In addition to the requirements of
Article VII of the City of San Diego's General Contract Terms and Provisions Applicable to
Goods, Services, and Consultant Contracts, the Contractor shall provide, at its sole cost and
expense, evidence of Cyber Liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000 for
each occurrence and an annual aggregate of $2,000,000 covering claims involving privacy
violations, information theft, damage to or destruction of electronic information, intentional
and/or unintentional release of private information, alteration of electronic information,
extortion and network security. Such coverage is required only if any products and/or
services related to information technology (including hardware and/or software) are
provided to Insured and for claims involving any professional services for which Contractor
is engaged with Insured for such length of time as necessary to cover any and all claims.
2. Professional Liability. The contractor shall obtain Professional Liability coverage with
limits of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate, covering the risk of
errors and omissions, negligent acts and costs of claims/litigation, including investigation
and court costs. If the coverage is written on a "claims-made" form, the Contractor must
ensure that the policy retroactive date is before the date of the contract is awarded and that
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 14
coverage is maintained during the duration of performance of the contract or the contract
period (whichever is longer) and the policy has a reporting period or run-off provision of at
least three (3) years following completion or termination of the performance of professional
services under this Contract.
H.
PRICE SCHEDULE
Proposers are required to submit their cost proposal in the form and format described
herein. Failure to provide cost(s) in the form and format requested in Exhibit D - -Price
Proposal may result in proposal being declared nonresponsive and rejected.
Exhibits D, E, and F are Excel files posted in PlanetBids and must be completed in their
entirety.
RFP - Goods, Services, & Consultants
Revised: November 8, 2016
OCA Document No. 841661_3
Page 15
EXHIBIT C
CITY OF THE SAN SEMPER DIEGO VIGILANS STATE OF CALIFORNIA
THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO
GENERAL CONTRACT TERMS AND PROVISIONS
APPLICABLE TO GOODS, SERVICES, AND CONSULTANT CONTRACTS
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 1 of 21
ARTICLE I
SCOPE AND TERM OF CONTRACT
1.1
Scope of Contract. The scope of contract between the City and a provider of goods
and/or services (Contractor) is described in the Contract Documents. The Contract Documents
are comprised of the Request for Proposal, Invitation to Bid, or other solicitation document
(Solicitation); the successful bid or proposal; the letter awarding the contract to Contractor; the
City's written acceptance of exceptions or clarifications to the Solicitation, if any; and these
General Contract Terms and Provisions.
1.2
Effective Date. A contract between the City and Contractor (Contract) is effective on the
last date that the contract is signed by the parties and approved by the City Attorney in
accordance with Charter section 40. Unless otherwise terminated, this Contract is effective until
it is completed or as otherwise agreed upon in writing by the parties, whichever is the earliest. A
Contract term cannot exceed five (5) years unless approved by the City Council by ordinance.
1.3
Contract Extension. The City may, in its sole discretion, unilaterally exercise an option
to extend the Contract as described in the Contract Documents. In addition, the City may, in its
sole discretion, unilaterally extend the Contract on a month-to-month basis following contract
expiration if authorized under Charter section 99 and the Contract Documents. Contractor shall
not increase its pricing in excess of the percentage increase described in the Contract.
ARTICLE II
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR
2.1
Contract Administrator. The Purchasing Agent or designee is the Contract
Administrator for purposes of this Contract, and has the responsibilities described in this
Contract, in the San Diego Charter, and in Chapter 2, Article 2, Divisions 5, 30, and 32.
2.1.1 Contractor Performance Evaluations. The Contract Administrator will evaluate
Contractor's performance as often as the Contract Administrator deems necessary throughout the
term of the contract. This evaluation will be based on criteria including the quality of goods or
services, the timeliness of performance, and adherence to applicable laws, including prevailing
wage and living wage. City will provide Contractors who receive an unsatisfactory rating with a
copy of the evaluation and an opportunity to respond. City may consider final evaluations,
including Contractor's response, in evaluating future proposals and bids for contract award.
2.2
Notices. Unless otherwise specified, in all cases where written notice is required under
this Contract, service shall be deemed sufficient if the notice is personally delivered or deposited
in the United States mail, with first class postage paid, attention to the Purchasing Agent. Proper
notice is effective on the date of personal delivery or five (5) days after deposit in a United States
postal mailbox unless provided otherwise in the Contract. Notices to the City shall be sent to:
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 2 of 21
Purchasing Agent
City of San Diego, Purchasing and Contracting Division
1200 3rd Avenue, Suite 200
San Diego, CA 92101-4195
ARTICLE III
COMPENSATION
3.1
Manner of Payment. Contractor will be paid monthly, in arrears, for goods and/or
services provided in accordance with the terms and provisions specified in the Contract.
3.2
Invoices.
3.2.1 Invoice Detail. Contractor's invoice must be on Contractor's stationary with
Contractor's name, address, and remittance address if different. Contractor's invoice must have a
date, an invoice number, a purchase order number, a description of the goods or services
provided, and an amount due.
3.2.2 Service Contracts. Contractor must submit invoices for services to City by the
10th of the month following the month in which Contractor provided services. Invoices must
include the address of the location where services were performed and the dates in which
services were provided.
3.2.3 Goods Contracts. Contractor must submit invoices for goods to City within
seven days of the shipment. Invoices must describe the goods provided.
3.2.4 Parts Contracts. Contractor must submit invoices for parts to City within seven
calendar (7) days of the date the parts are shipped. Invoices must include the manufacturer of the
part, manufacturer's published list price, percentage discount applied in accordance with Pricing
Page(s), the net price to City, and an item description, quantity, and extension.
3.2.5 Extraordinary Work. City will not pay Contractor for extraordinary work unless
Contractor receives prior written authorization from the Contract Administrator. Failure to do so
will result in payment being withheld for services. If approved, Contractor will include an
invoice that describes the work performed and the location where the work was performed, and a
copy of the Contract Administrator's written authorization.
3.2.6 Reporting Requirements. Contractor must submit the following reports using
the City's web-based contract compliance portal. Incomplete and/or delinquent reports may
cause payment delays, non-payment of invoice, or both. For questions, please view the City's
online tutorials on how to utilize the City's web-based contract compliance portal.
3.2.6.1 Monthly Employment Utilization Reports. Contractor and Contractor's
subcontractors and suppliers must submit Monthly Employment Utilization Reports by the fifth
(5th) day of the subsequent month.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 3 of 21
3.2.6.2 Monthly Invoicing and Payments. Contractor and Contractor's
subcontractors and suppliers must submit Monthly Invoicing and Payment Reports by the fifth
(5th) day of the subsequent month.
3.3
Annual Appropriation of Funds. Contractor acknowledges that the Contract term may
extend over multiple City fiscal years, and that work and compensation under this Contract is
contingent on the City Council appropriating funding for and authorizing such work and
compensation for those fiscal years. This Contract may be terminated at the end of the fiscal year
for which sufficient funding is not appropriated and authorized. City is not obligated to pay
Contractor for any amounts not duly appropriated and authorized by City Council.
3.4
Price Adjustments. Based on Contractor's written request and justification, the City may
approve an increase in unit prices on Contractor's pricing pages consistent with the amount
requested in the justification in an amount not to exceed the increase in the Consumer Price
Index, San Diego Area, for All Urban Customers (CPI-U) as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, or 5.0%, whichever is less, during the preceding one year term. If the CPI-U is a
negative number, then the unit prices shall not be adjusted for that option year (the unit prices
will not be decreased). A negative CPI-U shall be counted against any subsequent increases in
the CPI-U when calculating the unit prices for later option years. Contractor must provide such
written request and justification no less than sixty days before the date in which City may
exercise the option to renew the contract, or sixty days before the anniversary date of the
Contract. Justification in support of the written request must include a description of the basis for
the adjustment, the proposed effective date and reasons for said date, and the amount of the
adjustment requested with documentation to support the requested change (e.g. CPI-U or 5.0%,
whichever is less). City's approval of this request must be in writing.
ARTICLE IV
SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION
4.1
City's Right to Suspend for Convenience. City may suspend all or any portion of
Contractor's performance under this Contract at its sole option and for its convenience for a
reasonable period of time not to exceed six (6) months. City must first give ten (10) days' written
notice to Contractor of such suspension. City will pay to Contractor a sum equivalent to the
reasonable value of the goods and/or services satisfactorily provided up to the date of
suspension. City may rescind the suspension prior to or at six (6) months by providing
Contractor with written notice of the rescission, at which time Contractor would be required to
resume performance in compliance with the terms and provisions of this Contract. Contractor
will be entitled to an extension of time to complete performance under the Contract equal to the
length of the suspension unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Parties.
4.2
City's Right to Terminate for Convenience. City may, at its sole option and for its
convenience, terminate all or any portion of this Contract by giving thirty (30) days' written
notice of such termination to Contractor. The termination of the Contract shall be effective upon
receipt of the notice by Contractor. After termination of all or any portion of the Contract,
Contractor shall: (1) immediately discontinue all affected performance (unless the notice directs
otherwise); and (2) complete any and all additional work necessary for the orderly filing of
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 4 of 21
documents and closing of Contractor's affected performance under the Contract. After filing of
documents and completion of performance, Contractor shall deliver to City all data, drawings,
specifications, reports, estimates, summaries, and such other information and materials created or
received by Contractor in performing this Contract, whether completed or in process. By
accepting payment for completion, filing, and delivering documents as called for in this section,
Contractor discharges City of all of City's payment obligations and liabilities under this Contract
with regard to the affected performance.
4.3
City's Right to Terminate for Default. Contractor's failure to satisfactorily perform any
obligation required by this Contract constitutes a default. Examples of default include a
determination by City that Contractor has: (1) failed to deliver goods and/or perform the services
of the required quality or within the time specified; (2) failed to perform any of the obligations of
this Contract; and (3) failed to make sufficient progress in performance which may jeopardize
full performance.
4.3.1 If Contractor fails to satisfactorily cure a default within ten (10) calendar days of
receiving written notice from City specifying the nature of the default, City may immediately
cancel and/or terminate this Contract, and terminate each and every right of Contractor, and any
person claiming any rights by or through Contractor under this Contract.
4.3.2 If City terminates this Contract, in whole or in part, City may procure, upon such
terms and in such manner as the Purchasing Agent may deem appropriate, equivalent goods or
services and Contractor shall be liable to City for any excess costs. Contractor shall also continue
performance to the extent not terminated.
4.4
Termination for Bankruptcy or Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors. If
Contractor files a voluntary petition in bankruptcy, is adjudicated bankrupt, or makes a general
assignment for the benefit of creditors, the City may at its option and without further notice to, or
demand upon Contractor, terminate this Contract, and terminate each and every right of
Contractor, and any person claiming rights by and through Contractor under this Contract.
4.5
Contractor's Right to Payment Following Contract Termination.
4.5.1 Termination for Convenience. If the termination is for the convenience of City
an equitable adjustment in the Contract price shall be made. No amount shall be allowed for
anticipated profit on unperformed services, and no amount shall be paid for an as needed contract
beyond the Contract termination date.
4.5.2 Termination for Default. If, after City gives notice of termination for failure to
fulfill Contract obligations to Contractor, it is determined that Contractor had not so failed, the
termination shall be deemed to have been effected for the convenience of City. In such event,
adjustment in the Contract price shall be made as provided in Section 4.3.2. City's rights and
remedies are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Contract.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 5 of 21
4.6
Remedies Cumulative. City's remedies are cumulative and are not intended to be
exclusive of any other remedies or means of redress to which City may be lawfully entitled in
case of any breach or threatened breach of any provision of this Contract.
ARTICLE V
ADDITIONAL CONTRACTOR OBLIGATIONS
5.1
Inspection and Acceptance. The City will inspect and accept goods provided under this
Contract at the shipment destination unless specified otherwise. Inspection will be made and
acceptance will be determined by the City department shown in the shipping address of the
Purchase Order or other duly authorized representative of City.
5.2
Responsibility for Lost or Damaged Shipments. Contractor bears the risk of loss or
damage to goods prior to the time of their receipt and acceptance by City. City has no obligation
to accept damaged shipments and reserves the right to return damaged goods, at Contractor's
sole expense, even if the damage was not apparent or discovered until after receipt.
5.3
Responsibility for Damages. Contractor is responsible for all damage that occurs as a
result of Contractor's fault or negligence or that of its' employees, agents, or representatives in
connection with the performance of this Contract. Contractor shall immediately report any such
damage to people and/or property to the Contract Administrator.
5.4
Delivery. Delivery shall be made on the delivery day specified in the Contract
Documents. The City, in its sole discretion, may extend the time for delivery. The City may
order, in writing, the suspension, delay or interruption of delivery of goods and/or services.
5.5
Delay. Unless otherwise specified herein, time is of the essence for each and every
provision of the Contract. Contractor must immediately notify City in writing if there is, or it is
anticipated that there will be, a delay in performance. The written notice must explain the cause
for the delay and provide a reasonable estimate of the length of the delay. City may terminate
this Contract as provided herein if City, in its sole discretion, determines the delay is material.
5.5.1 If a delay in performance is caused by any unforeseen event(s) beyond the control
of the parties, City may allow Contractor to a reasonable extension of time to complete
performance, but Contractor will not be entitled to damages or additional compensation. Any
such extension of time must be approved in writing by City. The following conditions may
constitute such a delay: war; changes in law or government regulation; labor disputes; strikes;
fires, floods, adverse weather or other similar condition of the elements necessitating cessation of
the performance; inability to obtain materials, equipment or labor; or other specific reasons
agreed to between City and Contractor. This provision does not apply to a delay caused by
Contractor's acts or omissions. Contractor is not entitled to an extension of time to perform if a
delay is caused by Contractor's inability to obtain materials, equipment, or labor unless City has
received, in a timely manner, documentary proof satisfactory to City of Contractor's inability to
obtain materials, equipment, or labor, in which case City's approval must be in writing.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 6 of 21
5.6
Restrictions and Regulations Requiring Contract Modification. Contractor shall
immediately notify City in writing of any regulations or restrictions that may or will require
Contractor to alter the material, quality, workmanship, or performance of the goods and/or
services to be provided. City reserves the right to accept any such alteration, including any
resulting reasonable price adjustments, or to cancel the Contract at no expense to the City.
5.7
Warranties. All goods and/or services provided under the Contract must be warranted by
Contractor or manufacturer for at least twelve (12) months after acceptance by City, except
automotive equipment. Automotive equipment must be warranted for a minimum of 12,000
miles or 12 months, whichever occurs first, unless otherwise stated in the Contract. Contractor is
responsible to City for all warranty service, parts, and labor. Contractor is required to ensure that
warranty work is performed at a facility acceptable to City and that services, parts, and labor are
available and provided to meet City's schedules and deadlines. Contractor may establish a
warranty service contract with an agency satisfactory to City instead of performing the warranty
service itself. If Contractor is not an authorized service center and causes any damage to
equipment being serviced, which results in the existing warranty being voided, Contractor will
be liable for all costs of repairs to the equipment, or the costs of replacing the equipment with
new equipment that meets City's operational needs.
5.8
Industry Standards. Contractor shall provide goods and/or services acceptable to City in
strict conformance with the Contract. Contractor shall also provide goods and/or services in
accordance with the standards customarily adhered to by an experienced and competent provider
of the goods and/or services called for under this Contract using the degree of care and skill
ordinarily exercised by reputable providers of such goods and/or services. Where approval by
City, the Mayor, or other representative of City is required, it is understood to be general
approval only and does not relieve Contractor of responsibility for complying with all applicable
laws, codes, policies, regulations, and good business practices.
5.9
Records Retention and Examination. Contractor shall retain, protect, and maintain in
an accessible location all records and documents, including paper, electronic, and computer
records, relating to this Contract for five (5) years after receipt of final payment by City under
this Contract. Contractor shall make all such records and documents available for inspection,
copying, or other reproduction, and auditing by authorized representatives of City, including the
Purchasing Agent or designee. Contractor shall make available all requested data and records at
reasonable locations within City or County of San Diego at any time during normal business
hours, and as often as City deems necessary. If records are not made available within the City or
County of San Diego, Contractor shall pay City's travel costs to the location where the records
are maintained and shall pay for all related travel expenses. Failure to make requested records
available for inspection, copying, or other reproduction, or auditing by the date requested may
result in termination of the Contract. Contractor must include this provision in all subcontracts
made in connection with this Contract.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 7 of 21
5.9.1 Contractor shall maintain records of all subcontracts entered into with all firms, all
project invoices received from Subcontractors and Suppliers, all purchases of materials and
services from Suppliers, and all joint venture participation. Records shall show name, telephone
number including area code, and business address of each Subcontractor and Supplier, and joint
venture partner, and the total amount actually paid to each firm. Project relevant records,
regardless of tier, may be periodically reviewed by the City.
5.10 Quality Assurance Meetings. Upon City's request, Contractor shall schedule one or
more quality assurance meetings with City's Contract Administrator to discuss Contractor's
performance. If requested, Contractor shall schedule the first quality assurance meeting no later
than eight (8) weeks from the date of commencement of work under the Contract. At the quality
assurance meeting(s), City's Contract Administrator will provide Contractor with feedback, will
note any deficiencies in Contract performance, and provide Contractor with an opportunity to
address and correct such deficiencies. The total number of quality assurance meetings that may
be required by City will depend upon Contractor's performance.
5.11 Duty to Cooperate with Auditor. The City Auditor may, in his sole discretion, at no
cost to the City, and for purposes of performing his responsibilities under Charter section 39.2,
review Contractor's records to confirm contract compliance. Contractor shall make reasonable
efforts to cooperate with Auditor's requests.
5.12 Safety Data Sheets. If specified by City in the solicitation or otherwise required by this
Contract, Contractor must send with each shipment one (1) copy of the Safety Data Sheet (SDS)
for each item shipped. Failure to comply with this procedure will be cause for immediate
termination of the Contract for violation of safety procedures.
5.13 Project Personnel. Except as formally approved by the City, the key personnel identified
in Contractor's bid or proposal shall be the individuals who will actually complete the work.
Changes in staffing must be reported in writing and approved by the City.
5.13.1 Criminal Background Certification. Contractor certifies that all employees
working on this Contract have had a criminal background check and that said employees are
clear of any sexual and drug related convictions. Contractor further certifies that all employees
hired by Contractor or a subcontractor shall be free from any felony convictions.
5.13.2 Photo Identification Badge. Contractor shall provide a company photo
identification badge to any individual assigned by Contractor or subcontractor to perform
services or deliver goods on City premises. Such badge must be worn at all times while on City
premises. City reserves the right to require Contractor to pay fingerprinting fees for personnel
assigned to work in sensitive areas. All employees shall turn in their photo identification badges
to Contractor upon completion of services and prior to final payment of invoice.
5.14 Standards of Conduct. Contractor is responsible for maintaining standards of employee
competence, conduct, courtesy, appearance, honesty, and integrity satisfactory to the City.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 8 of 21
5.14.1 Supervision. Contractor shall provide adequate and competent supervision at all
times during the Contract term. Contractor shall be readily available to meet with the City.
Contractor shall provide the telephone numbers where its representative(s) can be reached.
5.14.2 City Premises. Contractor's employees and agents shall comply with all City
rules and regulations while on City premises.
5.14.3 Removal of Employees. City may request Contractor immediately remove from
assignment to the City any employee found unfit to perform duties at the City. Contractor shall
comply with all such requests.
5.15 Licenses and Permits. Contractor shall, without additional expense to the City, be
responsible for obtaining any necessary licenses, permits, certifications, accreditations, fees and
approvals for complying with any federal, state, county, municipal, and other laws, codes, and
regulations applicable to Contract performance. This includes, but is not limited to, any laws or
regulations requiring the use of licensed contractors to perform parts of the work.
5.16 Contractor and Subcontractor Registration Requirements. Prior to the award of the
Contract or Task Order, Contractor and Contractor's subcontractors and suppliers must register
with the City's web-based vendor registration and bid management system. The City may not
award the Contract until registration of all subcontractors and suppliers is complete. In the event
this requirement is not met within the time frame specified by the City, the City reserves the right
to rescind the Contract award and to make the award to the next responsive and responsible
proposer of bidder.
ARTICLE VI
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
6.1
Rights in Data. If, in connection with the services performed under this Contract,
Contractor or its employees, agents, or subcontractors, create artwork, audio recordings,
blueprints, designs, diagrams, documentation, photographs, plans, reports, software, source code,
specifications, surveys, system designs, video recordings, or any other original works of
authorship, whether written or readable by machine (Deliverable Materials), all rights of
Contractor or its subcontractors in the Deliverable Materials, including, but not limited to
publication, and registration of copyrights, and trademarks in the Deliverable Materials, are the
sole property of City. Contractor, including its employees, agents, and subcontractors, may not
use any Deliverable Material for purposes unrelated to Contractor's work on behalf of the City
without prior written consent of City. Contractor may not publish or reproduce any Deliverable
Materials, for purposes unrelated to Contractor's work on behalf of the City, without the prior
written consent of the City.
6.2
Intellectual Property Rights Assignment. For no additional compensation, Contractor
hereby assigns to City all of Contractor's rights, title, and interest in and to the content of the
Deliverable Materials created by Contractor or its employees, agents, or subcontractors,
including copyrights, in connection with the services performed under this Contract. Contractor
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 9 of 21
shall promptly execute and deliver, and shall cause its employees, agents, and subcontractors to
promptly execute and deliver, upon request by the City or any of its successors or assigns at any
time and without further compensation of any kind, any power of attorney, assignment,
application for copyright, patent, trademark or other intellectual property right protection, or
other papers or instruments which may be necessary or desirable to fully secure, perfect or
otherwise protect to or for the City, its successors and assigns, all right, title and interest in and to
the content of the Deliverable Materials. Contractor also shall cooperate and assist in the
prosecution of any action or opposition proceeding involving such intellectual property rights
and any adjudication of those rights.
6.3
Contractor Works. Contractor Works means tangible and intangible information and
material that: (a) had already been conceived, invented, created, developed or acquired by
Contractor prior to the effective date of this Contract; or (b) were conceived, invented, created,
or developed by Contractor after the effective date of this Contract, but only to the extent such
information and material do not constitute part or all of the Deliverable Materials called for in
this Contract. All Contractor Works, and all modifications or derivatives of such Contractor
Works, including all intellectual property rights in or pertaining to the same, shall be owned
solely and exclusively by Contractor.
6.4
Subcontracting. In the event that Contractor utilizes a subcontractor(s) for any portion
of the work that comprises the whole or part of the specified Deliverable Materials to the City,
the agreement between Contractor and the subcontractor shall include a statement that identifies
the Deliverable Materials as a "works for hire" as described in the United States Copyright Act
of 1976, as amended, and that all intellectual property rights in the Deliverable Materials,
whether arising in copyright, trademark, service mark or other forms of intellectual property
rights, belong to and shall vest solely with the City. Further, the agreement between Contractor
and its subcontractor shall require that the subcontractor, if necessary, shall grant, transfer, sell
and assign, free of charge, exclusively to City, all titles, rights and interests in and to the
Deliverable Materials, including all copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights.
City shall have the right to review any such agreement for compliance with this provision.
6.5
Intellectual Property Warranty and Indemnification. Contractor represents and
warrants that any materials or deliverables, including all Deliverable Materials, provided under
this Contract are either original, or not encumbered, and do not infringe upon the copyright,
trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights of any third party, or are in the public
domain. If Deliverable Materials provided hereunder become the subject of a claim, suit or
allegation of copyright, trademark or patent infringement, City shall have the right, in its sole
discretion, to require Contractor to produce, at Contractor's own expense, new non-infringing
materials, deliverables or works as a means of remedying any claim of infringement in addition
to any other remedy available to the City under law or equity. Contractor further agrees to
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City, its officers, employees and agents from and
against any and all claims, actions, costs, judgments or damages, of any type, alleging or
threatening that any Deliverable Materials, supplies, equipment, services or works provided
under this contract infringe the copyright, trademark, patent or other intellectual property or
proprietary rights of any third party (Third Party Claim of Infringement). If a Third Party Claim
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 10 of 21
of Infringement is threatened or made before Contractor receives payment under this Contract,
City shall be entitled, upon written notice to Contractor, to withhold some or all of such
payment.
6.6
Software Licensing. Contractor represents and warrants that the software, if any, as
delivered to City, does not contain any program code, virus, worm, trap door, back door, time or
clock that would erase data or programming or otherwise cause the software to become
inoperable, inaccessible, or incapable of being used in accordance with its user manuals, either
automatically, upon the occurrence of licensor-selected conditions or manually on command.
Contractor further represents and warrants that all third party software, delivered to City or used
by Contractor in the performance of the Contract, is fully licensed by the appropriate licensor.
6.7
Publication. Contractor may not publish or reproduce any Deliverable Materials, for
purposes unrelated to Contractor's work on behalf of the City without prior written consent from
the City.
6.8
Royalties, Licenses, and Patents. Unless otherwise specified, Contractor shall pay all
royalties, license, and patent fees associated with the goods that are the subject of this
solicitation. Contractor warrants that the goods, materials, supplies, and equipment to be supplied
do not infringe upon any patent, trademark, or copyright, and further agrees to defend any and all
suits, actions and claims for infringement that are brought against the City, and to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the City, its elected officials, officers, and employees from all
liability, loss and damages, whether general, exemplary or punitive, suffered as a result of any
actual or claimed infringement asserted against the City, Contractor, or those furnishing goods,
materials, supplies, or equipment to Contractor under the Contract.
ARTICLE VII
INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE
7.1
Indemnification. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Contractor shall defend (with
legal counsel reasonably acceptable to City), indemnify, protect, and hold harmless City and its
elected officials, officers, employees, agents, and representatives (Indemnified Parties) from and
against any and all claims, losses, costs, damages, injuries (including, without limitation, injury
to or death of an employee of Contractor or its subcontractors), expense, and liability of every
kind, nature and description (including, without limitation, incidental and consequential
damages, court costs, and litigation expenses and fees of expert consultants or expert witnesses
incurred in connection therewith and costs of investigation) that arise out of, pertain to, or relate
to, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, any goods provided or performance of services
under this Contract by Contractor, any subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by
either of them, or anyone that either of them control. Contractor's duty to defend, indemnify,
protect and hold harmless shall not include any claims or liabilities arising from the sole
negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnified Parties.
7.2
Insurance. Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 11 of 21
in connection with the performance of the work hereunder and the results of that work by
Contractor, his agents, representatives, employees or subcontractors.
Contractor shall provide, at a minimum, the following:
7.2.1 Commercial General Liability. Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01
covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products and completed operations, property
damage, bodily injury, and personal and advertising injury with limits no less than $1,000,000
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply
separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be
twice the required occurrence limit.
7.2.2 Commercial Automobile Liability. Insurance Services Office Form Number
CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto) or, if Contractor has no owned autos, Code 8 (hired) and 9
(non-owned), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property
damage.
7.2.3 Workers' Compensation. Insurance as required by the State of California, with
Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per
accident for bodily injury or disease.
7.2.4 Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions). For consultant contracts,
insurance appropriate to Consultant's profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate.
If Contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above,
City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by
Contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of
insurance and coverage shall be available to City.
7.2.5 Other Insurance Provisions. The insurance policies are to contain, or be
endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
7.2.5.1 Additional Insured Status. The City, its officers, officials, employees,
and volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to
liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of Contractor including
materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General
liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to Contractor's insurance (at
least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10 11 85 or if not available, through the addition of both CG
20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 if a later edition is used).
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 12 of 21
7.2.5.2 Primary Coverage. For any claims related to this contract,
Contractor's insurance coverage shall be primary coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04
13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by City, its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of
Contractor's insurance and shall not contribute with it.
7.2.5.3 Notice of Cancellation. Each insurance policy required above shall
provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except with notice to City.
7.2.5.4 Waiver of Subrogation. Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of
any right to subrogation which the Workers' Compensation insurer of said Contractor may
acquire against City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. Contractor agrees
to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation
endorsement from the insurer.
7.2.5.5 Claims Made Policies (applicable only to professional liability). The
Retroactive Date must be shown, and must be before the date of the contract or the beginning of
contract work. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at
least five (5) years after completion of the contract of work. If coverage is canceled or non-
renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a Retroactive Date prior
to the contract effective date, Contractor must purchase "extended reporting" coverage for a
minimum of five (5) years after completion of work.
7.3
Self Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by
City. City may require Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses
within the retention. The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-
insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or City.
7.4
Acceptability of Insurers. Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M.
Best's rating of no less than A-VI, unless otherwise acceptable to City.
City will accept insurance provided by non-admitted, "surplus lines" carriers only if the carrier is
authorized to do business in the State of California and is included on the List of Approved
Surplus Lines Insurers (LASLI list). All policies of insurance carried by non-admitted carriers
are subject to all of the requirements for policies of insurance provided by admitted carriers
described herein.
7.5
Verification of Coverage. Contractor shall furnish City with original certificates and
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage
required by this clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by
City before work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the
work beginning shall not waive Contractor's obligation to provide them. City reserves the right
to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements
required by these specifications, at any time.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 13 of 21
7.6
Special Risks or Circumstances. City reserves the right to modify these requirements,
including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other
special circumstances.
7.7
Additional Insurance. Contractor may obtain additional insurance not required by this
Contract.
7.8
Excess Insurance. All policies providing excess coverage to City shall follow the form
of the primary policy or policies including but not limited to all endorsements.
7.9
Subcontractors. Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain
insurance meeting all the requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an
additional insured on insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors
shall provide coverage with a format at least as broad as the CG 20 38 04 13 endorsement.
ARTICLE VIII
BONDS
8.1
Payment and Performance Bond. Prior to the execution of this Contract, City may
require Contractor to post a payment and performance bond (Bond). The Bond shall guarantee
Contractor's faithful performance of this Contract and assure payment to contractors,
subcontractors, and to persons furnishing goods and/or services under this Contract.
8.1.1 Bond Amount. The Bond shall be in a sum equal to twenty-five percent (25%)
of the Contract amount, unless otherwise stated in the Specifications. City may file a claim
against the Bond if Contractor fails or refuses to fulfill the terms and provisions of the Contract.
8.1.2 Bond Term. The Bond shall remain in full force and effect at least until complete
performance of this Contract and payment of all claims for materials and labor, at which time it
will convert to a ten percent (10%) warranty bond, which shall remain in place until the end of
the warranty periods set forth in this Contract. The Bond shall be renewed annually, at least sixty
(60) days in advance of its expiration, and Contractor shall provide timely proof of annual
renewal to City.
8.1.3 Bond Surety. The Bond must be furnished by a company authorized by the State
of California Department of Insurance to transact surety business in the State of California and
which has a current A.M. Best rating of at least "A-, VIII."
8.1.4 Non-Renewal or Cancellation. The Bond must provide that City and Contractor
shall be provided with sixty (60) days' advance written notice in the event of non-renewal,
cancellation, or material change to its terms. In the event of non-renewal, cancellation, or
material change to the Bond terms, Contractor shall provide City with evidence of the new
source of surety within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the date of the notice of non-renewal,
cancellation, or material change. Failure to maintain the Bond, as required herein, in full force
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 14 of 21
and effect as required under this Contact, will be a material breach of the Contract subject to
termination of the Contract.
8.2
Alternate Security. City may, at its sole discretion, accept alternate security in the form
of an endorsed certificate of deposit, a money order, a certified check drawn on a solvent bank,
or other security acceptable to the Purchasing Agent in an amount equal to the required Bond.
ARTICLE IX
CITY-MANDATED CLAUSES AND REQUIREMENTS
9.1
Contractor Certification of Compliance. By signing this Contract, Contractor certifies
that Contractor is aware of, and will comply with, these City-mandated clauses throughout the
duration of the Contract.
9.1.1 Drug-Free Workplace Certification. Contractor shall comply with City's
Drug-Free Workplace requirements set forth in Council Policy 100-17, which is incorporated
into the Contract by this reference.
9.1.2 Contractor Certification for Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and
State Access Laws and Regulations: Contractor shall comply with all accessibility
requirements under the ADA and under Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations (Title 24).
When a conflict exists between the ADA and Title 24, Contractor shall comply with the most
restrictive requirement (i.e., that which provides the most access). Contractor also shall comply
with the City's ADA Compliance/City Contractors requirements as set forth in Council Policy
100-04, which is incorporated into this Contract by reference. Contractor warrants and certifies
compliance with all federal and state access laws and regulations and further certifies that any
subcontract agreement for this contract contains language which indicates the subcontractor's
agreement to abide by the provisions of the City's Council Policy and any applicable access laws
and regulations.
9.1.3 Non-Discrimination Requirements.
9.1.3.1 Compliance with City's Equal Opportunity Contracting Program
(EOCP). Contractor shall comply with City's EOCP Requirements. Contractor shall not
discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on any basis prohibited by law.
Contractor shall provide equal opportunity in all employment practices. Prime Contractors shall
ensure that their subcontractors comply with this program. Nothing in this Section shall be
interpreted to hold a Prime Contractor liable for any discriminatory practice of its subcontractors.
9.1.3.2 Non-Discrimination Ordinance. Contractor shall not discriminate on the
basis of race, gender, gender expression, gender identity, religion, national origin, ethnicity,
sexual orientation, age, or disability in the solicitation, selection, hiring or treatment of
subcontractors, vendors or suppliers. Contractor shall provide equal opportunity for
subcontractors to participate in subcontracting opportunities. Contractor understands and agrees
that violation of this clause shall be considered a material breach of the Contract and may result
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 15 of 21
in Contract termination, debarment, or other sanctions. Contractor shall ensure that this language
is included in contracts between Contractor and any subcontractors, vendors and suppliers.
9.1.3.3 Compliance Investigations. Upon City's request, Contractor agrees to
provide to City, within sixty calendar days, a truthful and complete list of the names of all
subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers that Contractor has used in the past five years on any of its
contracts that were undertaken within San Diego County, including the total dollar amount paid
by Contractor for each subcontract or supply contract. Contractor further agrees to fully
cooperate in any investigation conducted by City pursuant to City's Nondiscrimination in
Contracting Ordinance. Contractor understands and agrees that violation of this clause shall be
considered a material breach of the Contract and may result in Contract termination, debarment,
and other sanctions.
9.1.4 Equal Benefits Ordinance Certification. Unless an exception applies, Contractor
shall comply with the Equal Benefits Ordinance (EBO) codified in the San Diego Municipal
Code (SDMC). Failure to maintain equal benefits is a material breach of the Contract.
9.1.5 Contractor Standards. Contractor shall comply with Contractor Standards
provisions codified in the SDMC. Contractor understands and agrees that violation of Contractor
Standards may be considered a material breach of the Contract and may result in Contract
termination, debarment, and other sanctions.
9.1.6 Noise Abatement. Contractor shall operate, conduct, or construct without
violating the City's Noise Abatement Ordinance codified in the SDMC.
9.1.7 Storm Water Pollution Prevention Program. Contractor shall comply with the
City's Storm Water Management and Discharge Control provisions codified in Division 3 of
Chapter 4 of the SDMC, as may be amended, and any and all applicable Best Management
Practice guidelines and pollution elimination requirements in performing or delivering services
at City owned, leased, or managed property, or in performance of services and activities on
behalf of City regardless of location.
Contractor shall comply with the City's Jurisdictional Urban Runoff Management Plan
encompassing Citywide programs and activities designed to prevent and reduce storm water
pollution within City boundaries as adopted by the City Council on January 22, 2008, via
Resolution No. 303351, as may be amended.
Contractor shall comply with each City facility or work site's Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan, as applicable, and institute all controls needed while completing the services to
minimize any negative impact to the storm water collection system and environment.
9.1.8 Service Worker Retention Ordinance. If applicable, Contractor shall comply
with the Service Worker Retention Ordinance (SWRO) codified in the SDMC.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 16 of 21
9.1.9 Product Endorsement. Contractor shall comply with Council Policy 000-41
which requires that other than listing the City as a client and other limited endorsements, any
advertisements, social media, promotions or other marketing referring to the City as a user of a
product or service will require prior written approval of the Mayor or designee. Use of the City
Seal or City logos is prohibited.
9.1.10 Business Tax Certificate. Unless the City Treasurer determines in writing that a
contractor is exempt from the payment of business tax, any contractor doing business with the
City of San Diego is required to obtain a Business Tax Certificate (BTC) and to provide a copy
of its BTC to the City before a Contract is executed.
9.1.11 Equal Pay Ordinance. Unless an exception applies, Contractor shall comply
with the Equal Pay Ordinance codified in San Diego Municipal Code sections 22.4801 through
22.4809. Contractor shall certify in writing that it will comply with the requirements of the EPO.
9.1.11.1 Contractor and Subcontract Requirement. The Equal Pay Ordinance
applies to any subcontractor who performs work on behalf of a Contractor to the same extent as
it would apply to that Contractor. Any Contractor subject to the Equal Pay Ordinance shall
require all of its subcontractors to certify compliance with the Equal Pay Ordinance in its written
subcontracts.
ARTICLE X
CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND VIOLATIONS OF LAW
10.1
Conflict of Interest Laws. Contractor is subject to all federal, state and local conflict of
interest laws, regulations, and policies applicable to public contracts and procurement practices
including, but not limited to, California Government Code sections 1090, et. seq. and 81000, et.
seq., and the Ethics Ordinance, codified in the SDMC. City may determine that Contractor must
complete one or more statements of economic interest disclosing relevant financial interests.
Upon City's request, Contractor shall submit the necessary documents to City.
10.2 Contractor's Responsibility for Employees and Agents. Contractor is required to
establish and make known to its employees and agents appropriate safeguards to prohibit
employees from using their positions for a purpose that is, or that gives the appearance of being,
motivated by the desire for private gain for themselves or others, particularly those with whom
they have family, business or other relationships.
10.3
Contractor's Financial or Organizational Interests. In connection with any task,
Contractor shall not recommend or specify any product, supplier, or contractor with whom
Contractor has a direct or indirect financial or organizational interest or relationship that would
violate conflict of interest laws, regulations, or policies.
10.4 Certification of Non-Collusion. Contractor certifies that: (1) Contractor's bid or
proposal was not made in the interest of or on behalf of any person, firm, or corporation not
identified; (2) Contractor did not directly or indirectly induce or solicit any other bidder or
proposer to put in a sham bid or proposal; (3) Contractor did not directly or indirectly induce or
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 17 of 21
solicit any other person, firm or corporation to refrain from bidding; and (4) Contractor did not
seek by collusion to secure any advantage over the other bidders or proposers.
10.5 Hiring City Employees. This Contract shall be unilaterally and immediately terminated
by City if Contractor employs an individual who within the twelve (12) months immediately
preceding such employment did in his/her capacity as a City officer or employee participate in
negotiations with or otherwise have an influence on the selection of Contractor.
ARTICLE XI
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
11.1 Mediation. If a dispute arises out of or relates to this Contract and cannot be settled
through normal contract negotiations, Contractor and City shall use mandatory non-binding
mediation before having recourse in a court of law.
11.2 Selection of Mediator. A single mediator that is acceptable to both parties shall be used
to mediate the dispute. The mediator will be knowledgeable in the subject matter of this
Contract, if possible.
11.3 Expenses. The expenses of witnesses for either side shall be paid by the party producing
such witnesses. All other expenses of the mediation, including required traveling and other
expenses of the mediator, and the cost of any proofs or expert advice produced at the direct
request of the mediator, shall be borne equally by the parties, unless they agree otherwise.
11.4 Conduct of Mediation Sessions. Mediation hearings will be conducted in an informal
manner and discovery will not be allowed. The discussions, statements, writings and admissions
will be confidential to the proceedings (pursuant to California Evidence Code sections 1115
through 1128) and will not be used for any other purpose unless otherwise agreed by the parties
in writing. The parties may agree to exchange any information they deem necessary. Both parties
shall have a representative attend the mediation who is authorized to settle the dispute, though
City's recommendation of settlement may be subject to the approval of the Mayor and City
Council. Either party may have attorneys, witnesses or experts present.
11.5 Mediation Results. Any agreements resulting from mediation shall be memorialized in
writing. The results of the mediation shall not be final or binding unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the parties. Mediators shall not be subject to any subpoena or liability, and their
actions shall not be subject to discovery.
ARTICLE XII
MANDATORY ASSISTANCE
12.1 Mandatory Assistance. If a third party dispute or litigation, or both, arises out of, or
relates in any way to the services provided to the City under a Contract, Contractor, its agents,
officers, and employees agree to assist in resolving the dispute or litigation upon City's request.
Contractor's assistance includes, but is not limited to, providing professional consultations,
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 18 of 21
attending mediations, arbitrations, depositions, trials or any event related to the dispute
resolution and/or litigation.
12.2 Compensation for Mandatory Assistance. City will compensate Contractor for fees
incurred for providing Mandatory Assistance. If, however, the fees incurred for the Mandatory
Assistance are determined, through resolution of the third party dispute or litigation, or both, to
be attributable in whole, or in part, to the acts or omissions of Contractor, its agents, officers, and
employees, Contractor shall reimburse City for all fees paid to Contractor, its agents, officers,
and employees for Mandatory Assistance.
12.3 Attorneys' Fees Related to Mandatory Assistance. In providing City with dispute or
litigation assistance, Contractor or its agents, officers, and employees may incur expenses and/or
costs. Contractor agrees that any attorney fees it may incur as a result of assistance provided
under Section 12.2 are not reimbursable.
ARTICLE XIII
MISCELLANEOUS
13.1 Headings. All headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of
this Contract.
13.2 Non-Assignment. Contractor may not assign the obligations under this Contract, whether
by express assignment or by sale of the company, nor any monies due or to become due under
this Contract, without City's prior written approval. Any assignment in violation of this
paragraph shall constitute a default and is grounds for termination of this Contract at the City's
sole discretion. In no event shall any putative assignment create a contractual relationship
between City and any putative assignee.
13.3 Independent Contractors. Contractor and any subcontractors employed by Contractor
are independent contractors and not agents of City. Any provisions of this Contract that may
appear to give City any right to direct Contractor concerning the details of performing or
providing the goods and/or services, or to exercise any control over performance of the Contract,
shall mean only that Contractor shall follow the direction of City concerning the end results of
the performance.
13.4 Subcontractors. All persons assigned to perform any work related to this Contract,
including any subcontractors, are deemed to be employees of Contractor, and Contractor shall be
directly responsible for their work.
13.5 Covenants and Conditions. All provisions of this Contract expressed as either covenants
or conditions on the part of City or Contractor shall be deemed to be both covenants and
conditions.
13.6 Compliance with Controlling Law. Contractor shall comply with all applicable local,
state, and federal laws, regulations, and policies. Contractor's act or omission in violation of
applicable local, state, and federal laws, regulations, and policies is grounds for contract
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 19 of 21
termination. In addition to all other remedies or damages allowed by law, Contractor is liable to
City for all damages, including costs for substitute performance, sustained as a result of the
violation. In addition, Contractor may be subject to suspension, debarment, or both.
13.7
Governing Law. The Contract shall be deemed to be made under, construed in
accordance with, and governed by the laws of the State of California without regard to the
conflicts or choice of law provisions thereof.
13.8 Venue. The venue for any suit concerning solicitations or the Contract, the interpretation
of application of any of its terms and conditions, or any related disputes shall be in the County of
San Diego, State of California.
13.9 Successors in Interest. This Contract and all rights and obligations created by this
Contract shall be in force and effect whether or not any parties to the Contract have been
succeeded by another entity, and all rights and obligations created by this Contract shall be
vested and binding on any party's successor in interest.
13.10 No Waiver. No failure of either City or Contractor to insist upon the strict performance
by the other of any covenant, term or condition of this Contract, nor any failure to exercise any
right or remedy consequent upon a breach of any covenant, term, or condition of this Contract,
shall constitute a waiver of any such breach of such covenant, term or condition. No waiver of
any breach shall affect or alter this Contract, and each and every covenant, condition, and term
hereof shall continue in full force and effect without respect to any existing or subsequent
breach.
13.11 Severability. The unenforceability, invalidity, or illegality of any provision of this
Contract shall not render any other provision of this Contract unenforceable, invalid, or illegal.
13.12 Drafting Ambiguities. The parties acknowledge that they have the right to be advised by
legal counsel with respect to the negotiations, terms and conditions of this Contract, and the
decision of whether to seek advice of legal counsel with respect to this Contract is the sole
responsibility of each party. This Contract shall not be construed in favor of or against either
party by reason of the extent to which each party participated in the drafting of the Contract.
13.13 Amendments. Neither this Contract nor any provision hereof may be changed, modified,
amended or waived except by a written agreement executed by duly authorized representatives
of City and Contractor. Any alleged oral amendments have no force or effect. The Purchasing
Agent must sign all Contract amendments.
13.14 Conflicts Between Terms. If this Contract conflicts with an applicable local, state, or
federal law, regulation, or court order, applicable local, state, or federal law, regulation, or court
order shall control. Varying degrees of stringency among the main body of this Contract, the
exhibits or attachments, and laws, regulations, or orders are not deemed conflicts, and the most
stringent requirement shall control. Each party shall notify the other immediately upon the
identification of any apparent conflict or inconsistency concerning this Contract.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 20 of 21
13.15 Survival of Obligations. All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and
guarantees made in, required by, or given in accordance with this Contract, as well as all
continuing obligations indicated in this Contract, shall survive, completion and acceptance of
performance and termination, expiration or completion of the Contract.
13.16 Confidentiality of Services. All services performed by Contractor, and any sub-
contractor(s) if applicable, including but not limited to all drafts, data, information,
correspondence, proposals, reports of any nature, estimates compiled or composed by
Contractor, are for the sole use of City, its agents, and employees. Neither the documents nor
their contents shall be released by Contractor or any subcontractor to any third party without the
prior written consent of City. This provision does not apply to information that: (1) was publicly
known, or otherwise known to Contractor, at the time it was disclosed to Contractor by City; (2)
subsequently becomes publicly known through no act or omission of Contractor; or (3) otherwise
becomes known to Contractor other than through disclosure by City.
13.17 Insolvency. If Contractor enters into proceedings relating to bankruptcy, whether
voluntary or involuntary, Contractor agrees to furnish, by certified mail or electronic commerce
method authorized by the Contract, written notification of the bankruptcy to the Purchasing
Agent and the Contract Administrator responsible for administering the Contract. This
notification shall be furnished within five (5) days of the initiation of the proceedings relating to
bankruptcy filing. This notification shall include the date on which the bankruptcy petition was
filed, the identity of the court in which the bankruptcy petition was filed, and a listing of City
contract numbers and contracting offices for all City contracts against which final payment has
not been made. This obligation remains in effect until final payment is made under this Contract.
13.18 No Third Party Beneficiaries. Except as may be specifically set forth in this Contract,
none of the provisions of this Contract are intended to benefit any third party not specifically
referenced herein. No party other than City and Contractor shall have the right to enforce any of
the provisions of this Contract.
13.19 Actions of City in its Governmental Capacity. Nothing in this Contract shall be
interpreted as limiting the rights and obligations of City in its governmental or regulatory
capacity.
General Contract Terms and Provisions
Revised: January 16, 2020
OCA Document No. 1685454_2
Page 21 of 21