# NASA Search and Rescue System Support Contract

Solicitation: 80GSFC26R0010
Type: Award Notice
NAICS: 334511
Opp ID: e516d137-e19a-4320-a0b8-ccfa29a165de



===== SOURCE FILE 1: 5921d427-dd63-4c32-87a1-b8ba340e0af6.txt =====

CUI//SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
Goddard Spaceflight Center (GSFC)
JUSTIFICATION FOR OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION
(JOFOC)
For SARLab Ground Systems Maintenance, Sustainment and Modernization
Contract
1. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 6.303-2(b)(1) - Identification of the agency and
the contracting activity, and specific identification of the document as a "Justification
for other than full and open competition."
This document is a justification for other than full and open competition prepared by National
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Goddard Space Flight Center
(GSFC), Greenbelt, MD.
The procuring agency is the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the
contracting activity is the Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC), Greenbelt, MD.
2. FAR 6.303-2(b)(2) - The nature and/or description of the action being approved:
This justification provides the rationale for contracting by other than full and open
competition to award a sole-source follow-on contract with Techno-Sciences, LLC (TSi), for
services and products related to the research, development, procurement, integration,
delivery, testing, operations, maintenance, sustainment, upgrade, and replacement of search
and rescue (SAR) systems, hardware, software, and technologies for NASA Local User
Terminal (LUT) Medium Earth Orbit (MEO), Low Earth Orbit/Medium Earth Orbit
(LEO/MEO), and Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO) and SAR Mission Control Center (MCC)
operations.
3. FAR 6.303-2(b)(3) - A description of the supplies or services required, to meet the
Agency's needs (including the estimated value):
The National Search and Rescue Plan gives NASA the role of developing and implementing
aerospace technology for application to search and rescue and related activities. NASA
supports both the first and second generations of the operational SAR Satellite (SARSAT)
system and provides SAR related technical services to other national government
organizations for a variety of applications, both civil and military. NASA is responsible for
providing this technical capability through the development and sustainment of the NASA
SARLab.
Under this contract, task orders will be awarded for services and products related to the
research and development (R&D), procurement, integration, delivery, testing, operations,
maintenance, sustainment, upgrade, and replacement of search and rescue systems, hardware,
software, and technologies.
2
Rev.:5/2025
CUI//SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
(Source Selection Information - See FAR 2.101 and 3.104-4)
CUI/SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
SAR Systems include: MEOLUTs; combined LEO/MEOLUTs; GEOLUTs;
Reference Beacons, and SAR MCCs.
SAR related hardware include: parabolic antennas; phased array antennas;
antenna control systems; Radio Frequency (RF) distribution systems; transmitters,
RF filters, software defined receivers; servers; databases; domain controllers;
monitoring and control systems; workstations; displays; networking equipment
(routers, switches, firewalls, Ethernet converters, fiber converters, copper and
fiberoptic cabling); Global Positioning System (GPS) timing distribution systems;
uninterruptible power supplies; Keyboard Video Mouse (KVM) switches; power
distribution units; Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices; and ancillary
adapters, interface cards, hard drives, operating systems, firmware, licenses,
cabling, connector, and rack mounting equipment.
SAR-related software include: ground station monitoring and control software;
antenna interface software; satellite scheduling software; all MEOLUT,
LEO/MEO, and GEOLUT software components; MCC software; and database
software.
SAR Technologies include: improvements to beacon location processing,
implementation of two-way communications with beacons, improvements to
satellite scheduling and coordination, improvements in system reliability,
availability and resiliency, improvements in beacon data analysis, distribution,
and interface control; automated ground system performance monitoring,
automated satellite performance monitoring; customization of LEO/MEO/GEO
LUT and MCC functions and interfaces to meet the requirements of NASA and
Human Space Flight (HSF) support.
The Government intends to issue a Firm-Fixed-Price (FFP)/Indefinite Delivery Indefinite
Quantity (IDIQ) with a five (5) year ordering period.
4. FAR 6.303-2(b)(4) - An identification of the statutory authority permitting other than
full and open competition:
The statutory authority permitting other than full and open competition is 10 U.S.C.
3204(a)(1), as implemented by FAR 6.302-1, "Only one responsible source and no other
supplies or services will satisfy agency requirements."
5. FAR 6.303-2(b)(5) - A demonstration that the proposed contractor's unique
qualifications or the nature of the acquisition requires use of the authority cited:
The rationale supporting the use of 10 U.S.C. 3204(a)(1) is "Only one responsible source and
no other supplies or services will satisfy agency requirements" as described below.
3
Rev.:5/2025
CUI//SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
(Source Selection Information - See FAR 2.101 and 3.104-4)
CUI//SP-PROCURE//FEDONLY
TSi possesses unique knowledge and expertise as the proprietary vendor responsible for the
original installation of GSFC SARLab MEOLUT hardware and software, as well as
continual maintenance of proprietary and company-specific GEOLUT and MEOLUT
infrastructure in use by NASA and to be covered by this contract period, as described below.
TSi is the current awardee for the GSFC MEOLUT (80GSFC20C111) sustainment and
maintenance contract, as well as the awardee to the prior iteration NNG15VI00C, responsible
for the continual upkeep of unique and specialized ground station equipment and software.
This includes the TSi-proprietary software used for beacon geo-locating/reporting
representative of operational SARSAT MEOLUTs and GEOLUTs. This proprietary software
package is required for elements of operational SARSAT support during SARSAT system-
wide anomaly resolution, as well as serving as the software backbone behind future
GEOLUT and MEOLUT-specific R&D tasks, due to the shared software configurations with
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), United States Coast Guard
(USCG), and United States Air Force (USAF) partner facilities supporting real-world SAR
operations. It is not possible for NASA to allow another vendor access to the TSi proprietary
software (of which NASA has no ownership) to perform the tasks set forth in this contract.
Any non-TSI hardware/software solution that replaces current existing infrastructure creates
undue cost, schedule, and operational constraints to NASA and the Cospas-Sarsat Program.
Use of another vendor's infrastructure does not allow for relevant operational
troubleshooting of national Cospas-Sarsat anomalies. Additionally, use of another vendor
does not allow for R&D activities to properly correspond with the operational segment when
sharing with national SARSAT program partners, NOAA, USCG, and USAF, currently
utilizing TSi hardware and software packages. NASA, as a testbed for current and future
ground station system, is required follow the design of interagency partners engaged in
national SAR activities.
The activities included in this contract are specifically tailored to GEOLUT and MEOLUT
ground station initiatives requiring identical configurations to operational SARSAT systems,
further necessitating the selection of TSi for fulfillment of all elements of this contract. TSi
does not have any authorized resellers and utilization of another manufacturer would defeat
the purpose of this contract as the R&D activities are in support of SARSAT program partner
systems. NASA R&D activities are required to verify and validate GEOLUT and MEOLUT
ground station requirements using existing GSFC SARLab TSi GEOLUT/MEOLUT
infrastructure, precluding selection of other vendors.
6. FAR 6.303-2(b)(6) - A description of the efforts made to ensure that offers are solicited
from as many potential sources as practicable, including whether a notice was or will be
publicized as required by Subpart 5.2 and, if not, which exception under 5.202 applies:
A notice to the Government Point of Entry (GPE) website (Sam.gov) was published on May
21, 2025, in accordance with FAR Subpart 5.2. This posting informed potential sources of
4
Rev.:5/2025
CUI/SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
(Source Selection Information - See FAR 2.101 and 3.104-4)
CUI//SP-PROCURE//FEDONLY
NASA's intent to award this sole-source contract to Techno-Sciences (TSi), LLC. The results
of this synopsis are summarized in Section 10 below.
7. FAR 6.303-2(b)(7) - A determination by the contracting officer that the anticipated cost
to the Government will be fair and reasonable:
The Contracting Officer's signature on this document indicates that the Contracting Officer
has determined that the anticipated cost to the government will be fair and reasonable. The
Contractor shall be required to submit a proposal to be evaluated and negotiated by the
Government. Prior to execution of the contractual instrument, a proposal analysis will be
performed. The proposal analysis will ensure that the final agreed-to price for the contract
action is fair and reasonable.
Proposed costs will be evaluated by the Contracting Officer's Representative and the
Contracting Officer to determine that the direct labor rates, direct labor hours, skill mix, other
direct costs, indirect costs, and profit(s) are fair and reasonable. This may also include
support from external organizations, as needed.
8. FAR 6.303-2(b)(8) - Description of the market research conducted, and the results, or a
statement of the reasons market research was not conducted (e.g., urgent, and
compelling requirement):
Market research was conducted considering the specialized and vendor-specific nature of the
contract under consideration. It was determined that no other commercial company has the
data and technical rights to the hardware and software currently maintained and installed by
TSi, LLC.
For the GEOLUT, no other vendor currently provides this existing system. Honeywell and
TSi have both confirmed that TSi is now the only authorized vendor of Honeywell based
GEOLUT systems globally. For MEOLUT market research has shown the only other known
system is also proprietary and would require decommissioning of existing parabolic dish
antennas and purchase and installation of the system's unique antenna, as well as
removal/replacement of existing ground infrastructure across the SARlab, for NASA to
update its testbed to another manufacturer. The extra costs, time, and most importantly
safety-of-life risks and impacts further substantiate the Government to an other-than-full-and-
open competition for these services.
9. FAR 6.303-2(b)(9) - Any other facts supporting the use of other than full and open
competition:
None
5
Rev.:5/2025
CUI//SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
(Source Selection Information - See FAR 2.101 and 3.104-4)
CUI/SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
10. FAR 6.303-2(b)(10) - A listing of the sources, if any, that expressed an interest in
writing in the acquisition:
A notice of NASA's intent to award this sole-source action was synopsized on the GPE
website (Sam.gov) per FAR Subpart 5.2 (See Section 6 above). The notice was posted on
May 21, 2025 and closed on June 5, 2025. Begini Howard Private Equity (BHPE) expressed
interested on May 27, 2025, but BHPE did not submit a capability statement for NASA's
evaluation. O'Ready LLC submitted a response on June 5, 2025. O'Ready LLC's response did
not demonstrate its capability in performing the continual upkeep of unique and specialized
ground station equipment and software. In addition, O'Ready LLC did not demonstrate they
possess a non-TSI hardware/software solution that would successfully replace current
existing infrastructure.
11. FAR 6.303-2(b)(11) - A statement of actions, if any, the agency may take to remove or
overcome any barriers to competition before any subsequent acquisition for the
supplies or services required:
The Agency will continue to examine the market in the future for alternative solutions or new
sources before executing any subsequent acquisitions for the same requirements. Due to the
limited commercial vendor community, the Agency will examine SARSAT program partners
system changes, will monitor new entrants to the LUT market when entrants occur, and
analyze any potential costs savings that could occur without a break in safety-of-life
coverage as well as mirroring of the operational US SARSAT LUT configurations/vendors.
6
Rev.:5/2025
CUI//SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
(Source Selection Information - See FAR 2.101 and 3.104-4)
CUI/SP-SSEL
JUSTIFICATION FOR OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION
SIGNATURE PAGE
I certify that the facts presented in this justification are accurate and complete.
Digitally signed by Cody Kelly
Cody Kelly
Date: 2025.07.21 12:01:27
-05'00'
Cody Kelly
Technical Representative
Contracting Officer: I hereby certify that the above justification is complete and accurate to the
best of my knowledge and belief.
SANDRA
Digitally signed by SANDRA
GRELLO
GRELLO
Date: 2025.07.21 13:34:05
-04'00'
Sandra Grello
Contracting Officer
APPROVED:
Digitally signed by Eric
Eric Newman
Newman
Date: 2025.09.22 11:05:22
-04'00'
Eric Newman
Competition Advocate
GSFC
7
Rev.:5/2025
CUI//SP-PROCURE/FEDONLY
(Source Selection Information - See FAR 2.101 and 3.104-4)