ACRAMENTO
COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF AIRPORTS
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
SOFTWARE SERVICES FOR
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF AIRPORTS
Proposals Due:
Tuesday, April 7, 2026
12 P.M. Pacific Time
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.
SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
2
II.
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
2
III.
ANTICIPATED SCOPE OF SERVICES
3
IV.
TERM AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE AGREEMENT
7
V.
HOW TO OBTAIN A COPY OF THIS RFP
7
VII. OPTIONAL VIRTUAL PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE
7
VIII. FORMAT OF PROPOSAL
8
IX.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
10
X.
STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATIONS
10
XI.
FEE STRUCTURE, PROPOSAL COST, AND SCOPE
11
XII. REFERENCES
12
XIII. RFP TIMELINE
12
XIV. EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS
13
XV.
QUESTIONS
13
XVI. BACKGROUND CHECKS
14
XVII. CONDITIONS
14
XVIII. NEGOTIATION OF AGREEMENT
16
Attachments:
1. Sample Agreement for Project Management Software Services for
Sacramento County Department of Airports
2. FAA General Contract Provisions for Solicitations
3. County of Sacramento Contractor Certification of Compliance Form
4. Contractor Identification Form
5. County of Sacramento Security Requirements
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 1 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
February 5, 2026
TO:
Prospective Service Providers
FROM:
William Wallace
Administrative Services Officer II
Sacramento County Department of Airports
SUBJECT: Sacramento County Department of Airports Project
Management Software Services
I.
SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
The County of Sacramento (County) owns and/or operates four airports in
Sacramento County, including Sacramento International Airport (SMF or
Airport), through the Department of Airports (SCDA or Department). The
Department is issuing this Request for Proposals (RFP) to solicit proposals
from prospective service providers (Contractors) to provide the
Department with Project Management Software services for the
Department.
The selected proposer shall provide a comprehensive, fully supported
cloud-based Project Management Software designed to meet the Design
and Development department's related needs in project tracking,
schedules, and maintaining project budgets that allow for reporting, and
may be further configured to Department's workflow needs. The software
will be used by the Department for its Capital Improvement Planning
process and shall be able to support this process. With a goal to be self-
sufficient and independently use the software.
II.
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
The County wishes to enter into an agreement with a qualified vendor to
provide the cloud-based project management software that includes
implementation, customization and training as indicated in the scope of
services.
The County seeks to implement a software solution primarily to manage
active construction projects across all its airport facilities. The system
shall provide robust tools for project status updates, scheduling, cost
control, document management, and real-time reporting to ensure
efficient delivery of capital projects.
In addition to supporting day-to-day construction workflows, the software
will enhance the Department's Capital Improvement Planning (CIP)
process that currently uses excel spreadsheets and Crystal Reports by
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 2 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
enabling portfolio-level visibility, prioritization, and long-term forecasting.
The new system with replace the current Excel-based tracking process,
reducing manual effort and improving accuracy across all project phases.
The CIP process involves prioritizing and budgeting long-term capital
projects, the software will support this process alongside active
construction management.
Key objectives include:
Streamlining construction project execution through automated
workflows for Request for Information (RFI), submittals, change
orders, and approvals.
Improving cost and schedule control with real-time dashboards and
alerts.
Providing integration with existing County systems (Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP), Geographic Information System (GIS)) for
seamless data exchange.
Supporting strategic planning by offering tools for capital project
prioritization and reporting.
Ensuring sustainability through comprehensive training and
knowledge transfer for full internal adoption.
Through this RFP, the Department intends to award an agreement that
establishes a collaborative framework for high-quality outcomes and
supports the Department's objectives as described in this RFP.
III. ANTICIPATED SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services shall include, but is not limited to, the following
components:
1. Software Licensing
Provide unlimited software licenses for all County staff, consultants,
and external stakeholders that require access.
Licensing shall include full access to all modules, features,
dashboards, workflow tools, and administrative functions.
Licenses must permit concurrent users, remote access, and the
ability to scale as County operations grow.
2. System Installation, Configuration, and Deployment
Complete installation of the Project Management Software,
including all server components, databases, system integrations,
and user environment configuration.
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 3 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
Configure the system to meet the County's project, program, and
portfolio management workflows, including:
Project status/updating reporting
Capital planning
Project initiation
Project budget and cost tracking
Invoice processing
Schedule management
Change orders, RFIs, submittals
Reporting dashboards and alerts
Work with County's information technology (IT) team to meet all
security, hosting, and technology compliance requirements
including:
Authentication and user permissions
System performance standards
Integration capabilities (Application Programming Interface
(API) availability, data import/export, etc.)
Data retention and backup protocols
3. Software Customization
Customize the software to align with Department-specific project
management and approval workflows.
Configure system fields, forms, dashboards, and approval routing.
Support County-defined requirements identified across the Project
Management Software including but not limited to:
Portfolio and capital planning tools
Document control
Budget and cost module customization
Schedule management visibility
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 4 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
Audit trails and version tracking
Automated alerting and notifications
Ensure that all customization remains supportable, upgradable, and
compatible with future software versions.
4. System Integration
Provide integration with existing County systems where applicable,
including:
ERP or financial systems
Document repositories
Single Sign-On (SSO)
GIS, scheduling tools, or other platforms as identified during
implementation
Supply all API documentation, middleware, and technical support
needed for successful integration.
5. Training and Knowledge Transfer
Provide comprehensive training for County staff, including:
Up to six (6) in-person administrator training
Up to ten (10) combination of in-person and virtual end-user
training
Up to six (6) virtual train-the-trainer sessions
Furnish user manuals, quick reference guides, and recorded
modules.
Deliver a training plan that addresses the usability considerations.
6. Ongoing Technical Support
Provide full-service technical support, including:
Helpdesk availability
Software updates and system patches
Troubleshooting assistance
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 5 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
Resolution of system issues and performance concerns
Include access to all scheduled software upgrades, enhancements,
and security releases.
Provide a dedicated technical representative during implementation
and early adoption phases.
7. Custom Reporting (Minimum of 10 Reports)
Develop up to ten (10) customized reports tailored to County
needs, such as:
Capital project status
Capital project portfolio summary
Budget and expenditure tracking
Schedule progress dashboard
Contract and change order reporting
Executive-level project status rollup
Reports must be exportable to standard formats (PDF, Excel, CSV)
and configurable by County administrators.
8. Documentation Deliverables
The Contractor shall provide detailed documentation, including:
System architecture and configuration documentation
Data model and integration specifications
Security protocols and compliance documentation
Administrator handbook and technical references
9. Project Management and Implementation Services
Develop a complete implementation plan, including:
Timeline and milestones
Roles and responsibilities
Data migration plan
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 6 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
Testing and validation procedures
Change management strategy
Conduct phased rollouts if necessary to reduce operational
disruption.
IV.
TERM AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE AGREEMENT
The Department intends to award a single Agreement in August 2026.
The initial term of the proposed Agreement will be four (4) years, with
two (2) additional two-year options to extend the term, for a possible
total term of eight (8) years.
V.
HOW TO OBTAIN A COPY OF THIS RFP
A copy of this RFP and any addenda to it can be found on the following
websites:
Sacramento County Department of Airports Website:
http://www.sacramento.aero/scas/opportunities/bids and requests
OpenGov Website:
Procurement Portal
VI. DEADLINE AND PROPOSAL SUBMISSION
Submittals shall be compromised of one (1) digital PDF copy of the
proposal (in a format compatible with Adobe Acrobat) and one (1) digital
copy of the Proposal compatible with Microsoft Word in DOC or DOCX
format.
Proposals are due no later than 12:00 P.M. Pacific Time (PT) on
Tuesday, May 5, 2026.
All late responses will be rejected.
Submit proposals via Opengov.com.
VII. OPTIONAL VIRTUAL PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE
An Optional Virtual Pre-Proposal Conference is scheduled for Friday,
February 20, 2026, at 10:00 AM. The purpose of the conference will be to
discuss the requirements and objectives of this RFP. Department
representatives will be available to answer questions from interested
companies.
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 7 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
To attend the optional virtual pre-proposal conference, please join via
your computer, mobile app or room device using the information provided
below.
Meeting Link:
https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/26367134896146?p=jpYYc4bSE8MfXa
SQaz
Meeting ID: 263 671 348 961 46
Passcode: Fm33Mt7R
Dial In:
916-245-8966,497498974# United States, Sacramento
https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/e6ecf38a-c5f2-4b16-8b9b-
b2e22c716ef8?id=497498974
Phone conference ID: 497 498 974#
VIII.
FORMAT OF PROPOSAL
Proposals submitted in response to this RFP must be prepared in the
following format and must address the contents in this Section VIII and
Sections IX, X, XI, and XII listed below. The proposal must be signed by
an authorized employee or officer to receive consideration.
A. COVER LETTER FOR PROPOSALS
A cover letter must be included with the proposal and must be signed by
an individual who is authorized to contractually bind the Contractor. The
cover letter must be submitted on business letterhead and contain the
following information:
1. Name and address of Contractor;
2. Name, telephone number, and e-mail address of a designated
contact person;
3. Name, title, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the
individual(s) with authority to execute a binding agreement on
behalf of the Contractor;
4. Demonstrated understanding of the work to be performed, the
commitment to perform the work, and why the Contractor believes
it is the best qualified to perform the work;
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 8 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
5. Acknowledgement of any addenda that may be issued;
6. Acknowledgement that Contractor has reviewed the proposed
sample agreement, and the Scope of Services contained therein, a
sample of which is attached as Attachment 1 to this RFP and
incorporated herein;
7. A statement that the Contractor agrees to the sample agreement
format, its content and all requirements as presented, including
insurance coverage and limits; and
8. State other general information which the Contractor desires to
include regarding the Contractor's business organization.
B. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The executive summary will list important features of the proposal and
must include a statement certifying that the Contractor meets or
exceeds the minimum requirements of this RFP.
C. REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION AND FORMS
In addition to the Cover Letter, the following documentation and forms
must be completed and attached to the proposal:
1. County of Sacramento Contractor Certification of Compliance Form
provided as Attachment 3 to this RFP; and
2. Contractor Identification Form provided as Attachment 4 to this RFP.
D. PAGE LIMITS
Proposals must be typed or printed in a font no smaller than eleven
(11) point, on 8.5" by 11" sized pages. The proposal should be concise
and must not exceed forty (40) pages, including any marketing
materials.
The following items are not included in the page limit count:
1. Cover page;
2. Cover letter;
3. Staff resumes;
4. Contractor team organization chart;
5. Independent market study;
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 9 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
6. County of Sacramento Contractor Certification of Compliance Form;
and
7. Contractor Identification Form.
IX.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
The following section describes the required minimum qualifications a
Contractor must demonstrate to be eligible to submit a proposal.
Proposals that do not meet these minimum qualifications will not be
further evaluated or considered.
Incomplete proposals will be rejected. It is the respondent's responsibility
to incorporate all pertinent information to effectively present a proposal
and to communicate the respondent's qualifications. All respondents are
required to thoroughly review all attachments detailing services required,
specifications, and required reports.
A. The Contractor must be registered with the California Secretary of
State and permitted to conduct business in the State of California.
B. The Contractor shall maintain insurance and workers' compensation
coverage that complies with or exceeds the minimum requirements
established by the County.
C. The Proposer must possess a minimum of ten (10) years of continuous
experience in providing project management software services to
public agencies.
D. Ability to meet the County of Sacramento Security Requirements as
described in Attachment 5 to this RFP.
X.
STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATIONS
The selected Contractor must successfully demonstrate the capability to
provide the services described in this RFP in a large public use facility in
continuous operation, such as in an airport or similar such as a
correctional facility.
A. COMPANY QUALIFICATIONS:
1. Describe the company and how it meets the minimum qualifications
of this RFP.
2. Explain how you will support the Department through the transition
from the current process to use of the proposed project
management software. The Department does not currently use a
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 10 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
project management system. Give examples of how you have done
this for other public agencies with success.
3. What sets your company apart from your competitors.
4. Describe your Service Support Capabilities including training
services, onboarding, change management and your
Implementation Plan that will be provided to support initial rollout
and ongoing use of software. How will power users be trained to
support long term internal use.
B. APPROACH, SCOPE AND TIMELINE:
Provide a proposed approach and projected timeline to conduct and
complete each step in the Anticipated Scope of Services described in
this RFP.
XI.
FEE STRUCTURE, PROPOSAL COST, AND SCOPE
Please include the hourly rates for the project. Clearly identify any
overhead multipliers or other fees not covered by the stated hourly rates,
if applicable. The terms of the resulting agreement will be subject to
negotiations between the Department and the successful Contractor.
Include anticipated hours for all employees proposed and justification of
hours to complete the required scope of services.
Include the following additional information:
A. FINANCIAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Include the following historical financial information for the Contractor
and any joint venture or affiliate entities:
1. Balance sheet and income statements for the last two fiscal
years prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, reflecting the current financial condition of the
Contractor. Also, include an interim balance sheet and income
statement of any significant financial events occurring after the
closing date of the most recent financial statements.
2. Describe ownership of the proposing entity.
B. FEE SCHEDULE
Contractor shall include a proposed Fee Schedule for the initial four-
year term and for each of the additional two-year extension options.
The terms of the resulting Agreement will be subject to negotiation
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 11 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
with the successful entity. The structure and general terms of the final
agreement will align with the sample agreement provided as
Attachment 1 to the RFP.
XII. REFERENCES
Provide references from at least three (3) clients or individuals who have
direct experience with your company within the last five (5) years and
can be contacted to verify your qualifications. Please include:
A. Company name;
B. Contact name;
C. Contact title;
D. Address;
E. E-mail address;
F. Telephone number; and
G. Services performed
Note that the Department reserves the right to contact past or current
references not provided by the Contractor and may evaluate those
references with the same consideration as those provided by the
Contractor.
XIII.
RFP TIMELINE
The table below describes the estimated timeline for the RFP process
through award of agreement:
Dates
Event
February 5, 2026
Issuance of RFP
February 20, 2026
10:00 AM PST
Optional Virtual Pre-Proposal Conference
March 10, 2026
Deadline for submitting questions
12 P.M. PDT
March 24, 2026
Addenda issued if necessary, including
12 P.M. PDT
Department's responses to questions
April 7, 2026
12 P.M. PDT
Proposals Due
May 5, 2026
Interviews
Anticipated effective date of agreement with
July 2026
selected Contractor
The Department reserves the right to modify, at its sole and absolute
discretion, this schedule and any specific deadlines, including the selected
Contractor's service start date.
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 12 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
XIV.
EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS
The RFP evaluation process will include a specific focused review of each
proposal by a panel of evaluators. Each proposal will be evaluated against
other proposals received. Proposals must be formatted and headlined in
the order of Sections IX-XII, indicated above, and must clearly answer /
describe and or demonstrate all the required information requested
herein.
Proposals will be evaluated based on the following criteria in the table on
the following page:
Category
Points Towards Overall Score
Completeness of Response
Pass/Fail
Minimum Qualifications
Pass/Fail
References
Pass/Fail
Service Support Capabilities
20
Implementation Plan
20
Company Qualifications
15
Relevant Public Sector Experience
15
and References
Fee Schedule
20
Total
100
Proposals will receive a final score based on the average of scores from
the evaluation panel. The highest-ranked proposers may be required to
attend a virtual interview, which will serve as the basis for the panel's
final decision for a recommendation to the County's Board of Supervisors
for contract award.
XV.
QUESTIONS
All inquiries regarding this RFP and any requests for clarification of the
contents of this RFP must be directed in writing, via e-mail to William
Wallace at wallacew@saccounty.gov no later than March 10, 2026, at
12:00 P.M. Pacific Time.
Interested parties are hereby notified of the following:
A. Telephone inquiries will not receive a response.
B. Contractors are not to rely on oral instructions or clarifications to this
RFP.
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 13 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
C. If modifications to this RFP are necessary, the Department will respond
in writing via addendum, which will be posted to the following
websites:
Sacramento County Department of Airports Website:
http://www.sacramento.aero/scas/opportunities/bids . and requests
OpenGov Website:
Procurement Portal
D. Interested parties are encouraged to regularly check the Department's
web site or the OpenGov website for possible updates to this RFP.
E. Contact with or lobbying of any County representative other than
William Wallace regarding this solicitation prior to the notice that the
Contractor is or is not recommended for award is cause for
disqualification.
XVI.
BACKGROUND CHECKS
The selected Contractor's staff that will be working on-site unescorted or
who require Airport access must:
A. Pass the Department's background check; and
B. Obtain an airport access badge to conduct work in secured areas.
XVII.
CONDITIONS
A. FAA GENERAL CONTRACT PROVISIONS FOR SOLICITATIONS
The contractor shall, at all times during the term of the agreement,
comply with the provisions of the "Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
General Contract Provisions for Solicitations" (FAA Solicitation Provisions)
and any subsequent revisions, updates, or amendments thereto. The
most current version of the FAA Solicitation Provisions is included as
Attachment 2 of this RFP.
B. DEPARTMENT'S RIGHT TO NEGOTIATE AGREEMENTS
The Department reserves the right to negotiate agreements with
companies outside of the RFP process, even if such companies did not
participate in the RFP process. The Department also reserves the right to
not execute an agreement with any Contractors. The Department accepts
no liability for any costs incurred by Contractors to prepare and submit
responses to this request.
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 14 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
C. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF RFP DOCUMENTS
The County will treat all information submitted in a proposal as available
for public inspection once negotiations with the selected party have been
completed. If copies of proposals are included with Board materials, the
County will make such documents available for public inspection once
staff has made a recommendation for award.
If a Contractor believes protected data is included in its proposal, the
Contractor shall clearly identify the data and provide the legal basis in
support of the asserted classification. Contractor must present such
information separately as part of its proposal or type in bold red letters
the term "CONFIDENTIAL" on that specific part or page of the proposal
which Contractor believes to be confidential. Classification of data as
trade secret data will be determined pursuant to applicable law, and,
accordingly, merely labeling data as "trade secret" does not necessarily
make the data protected as such under any applicable law.
In order for the County to assert the confidentiality of any such
information in the event a Public Record Act request is received, the
Contractor must request, execute and submit a County-prepared written
agreement to defend and indemnify the County for any liability, costs and
expenses incurred in asserting such confidentiality.
The final determination of whether the County will assert a Contractor's
claim of confidentiality shall be at the sole discretion of the County. Any
information determined to be non-confidential shall be considered a public
record. If the County determines that your information does not meet the
criteria for confidentiality, you will be notified of the County's intent to
release the public record pursuant to any Public Records Act request.
The Contractor agrees, as a condition of submitting its proposal, that the
County will not, as between the parties, be liable or accountable for any
loss or damage, which may result from a breach of confidentiality related
to the proposal. The Contractor agrees to indemnify and hold the County,
its officials, agents, and employees harmless from all claims arising out
of, resulting from, or in any manner attributable to any violation of any
provision of the California Public Records Act, including legal fees and
disbursements paid or incurred to enforce this provision.
D. TAXATION
The Selected Contractor shall cooperate with the County in all matters
relating to taxation and the collection of taxes. It is the policy of the
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 15 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports
County to self-accrue use tax associated with its contracts. The use tax
which is self-accrued will be remitted to the California State Board of
Equalization designating the County as the place of business for the
purpose of allocating local sales and use taxes.
E. NO CONFIDENTIAL OR PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
All information given to the Department or the evaluation panel in any
correspondence, discussion, meeting or other communication before, with
or after submission of a proposal, either orally or in writing, will not be
deemed to have been, given in confidence and may be used or disclosed
to others for any purpose at any time without obligation or compensation
and without liability by the Department of any kind whatsoever.
Evaluation scoring forms used by the evaluation panel are likewise
considered public information subject to the California Public Records Act
and will be available upon request after execution of an Agreement for
services pursuant to this RFP.
XVIII.
NEGOTIATION OF AGREEMENT
The selected Contractor shall execute an agreement with the County of
Sacramento, using the standard agreement promulgated by the Office of
the County Counsel. Any requested revisions, deletions, or additions to
the language in the attached sample agreement shall be clearly set forth
in the proposal for the Department's consideration. The Agreement must
be reviewed and approved by County Counsel prior to execution. The final
agreement will be executed with electronic signatures via DocuSign.
Request for Proposals
Project Management Software Services for
Page 16 of 16
Sacramento County Department of Airports