19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
OpenGov
Sign Up
Log In
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
CALIFORNIA
OPEN
San Mateo County Beach Safety and Ocean
Conditions Dashboard Platform
Request for Proposals
County Executive's Office
20400, 20600, 20700, 20800, 20900.. show all
Project ID: 2026-RFP - Informal-00253
Release Date: Tuesday, February 10, 2026
Due Date: Friday, March 20, 2026 3:00pm
Posted
Tuesday, February 10, 2026 1:29pm
All dates & times in Pacific Time
Draft Response
No Bid
Time Remaining: 29 days, 5 hours, 10 minutes
i
To respond to this project, please click the "Draft Response" button above.
Post Information
Posted At:
Tue, Feb 10, 2026 1:29 PM
Sealed Bid Process:
Yes (Bids Sealed / Pricing Sealed)
Private Bid:
No
1. Introduction
The County of San Mateo (the "County" or "SMC") covers most of the San Francisco Peninsula.
The region covers 744 mi and is home to nearly 800,000 residents and 20 incorporated cities.
The County provides for the health and welfare of all people within its borders and serves as the
local government for the unincorporated areas. Innovation thrives here in industries including
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=all
1/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
bioscience, computer software, green technology, hospitality, financial management, health care,
education and transportation. The County prides itself on how that prosperity fosters its
commitment to protecting and enhancing the health, safety, welfare and natural resources of the
community.
1.1. Summary
The County is committed to enhancing public safety across our diverse coastal region.
Currently, community members and visitors lack a centralized, real-time resource to assess
ocean hazards, changing weather patterns, and essential safety protocols before entering the
water.
As outlined in the Scope of Work, this RFP seeks highly qualified contractors to provide and
manage a comprehensive digital platform of San Mateo County Beaches that delivers live, easy
to understand, location-specific data to the public. A successful result will be a user-friendly,
reliable interface that empowers beachgoers to make informed decisions and fosters safer
ocean practices along the San Mateo County coastline.
1.2. Contact Information
Lena Silberman
Management Analyst
Email: lsilberman@smcgov.org
Phone: (650) 363-4229
Department:
County Executive's Office
Department Head:
Michael Callagy
County Executive
1.3. Timeline
RFP Released:
February 10, 2026
Deadline for Questions, Comments and Contract Exceptions:
February 27, 2026, 3:00pm
Question Response Deadline:
March 6, 2026, 3:00pm
Proposal Due Date and Time:
March 20, 2026, 3:00pm
2/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
Interviews (tentative):
March 27, 2026
Anticipated Contract Award Date:
April 10, 2026
2. Scope of Work
2.1. Platform Development
Contractor will develop an interface that includes, but is not limited to:
A. Real-time local weather and surf data
Real-time reporting on wave height, rip tides, wind speed, and water temperature at
each individual beach location within San Mateo County.
B. Hazard alert system
An easy to understand system to designate the risk of the ocean at each specific
SMC beach location.
Provide information on the specific hazards present
C. Customization
Easy customization allowing the County to add timely and location specific updates.
2.2. Data Integration
The platform should seamlessly and automatically aggregate and synchronize a diverse range of
data, including local, regional and national sources.
2.3. User Experience & Accessibility
A. The interface should be easy to understand and available in multiple languages.
B. The platform must meet Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA
standards.
C. The platform must be easily accessible on mobile devices.
2.4. Maintenance and Hosting
Contractor will maintain and host the webpage and ensure that it is:
A. Consistent and stable.
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=al
3/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
B. Robust data encryption and protection against cyber threats, adhering to County IT
security standards.
The contractor should provide the County with regular reports on user engagement, most-
visited beach pages, and alert click-through rates.
2.5. Implementation Timeline
The contractor should provide a comprehensive project schedule that culminates in a Full
Launch within 90 days of the contract award.
3. Submission Requirements
3.1. Submission Deadline
Proposals must be electronically received by 3:00 pm, on Friday, March 20, 2026 via
eProcurement system.
Allow sufficient time for the upload to complete by the Due Date and Time. Partial uploads will
automatically terminate, and proposals will be rejected. The eProcurement system submission
time will be the official submission time. The County will not be responsible for and may not
accept proposals that are late due to slow internet connections or for any other failure of the
eProcurement system.
NOTE: The County does not maintain the eProcurement system and is not liable for site failures
or technical problems. To resolve technical issues, contact OpenGov Technical Support by using
the real time chat located in the lower right hand corner of the screen, or via email
at procurement-support@opengov.com
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov
3.2. Pre-submission Registration
Organizations or individuals interested in responding to this solicitation must register online with
the County of San Mateo at:
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=al
4/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
It is recommended that organizations complete this registration as soon as possible. The County
will not be responsible for and may not accept proposals that are late due to a failure to register
in the eProcurement system.
3.3. Submission via eProcurement Portal
Required Documents
Please refer to the Technical Proposal section for submittal documents and requirements.
Electronic Submissions
Include the proposer name and the RFP title and number in each filename. Submit proposals via
the eProcurement website, allowing sufficient time for the upload to complete by the Due Date
and Time. As noted above, the eProcurement portal submission time will be the official
submission time, and partial uploads will automatically terminate, and proposals will be rejected.
Contact_eProcurement Portal with technical questions regarding this site.
Conflicts between Certain Requirements
Prior to the submission deadlines and solely relating to a determination of the timeliness of
questions, comments, and proposal submissions, information displayed on the eProcurement
portal site will take precedence in the event of a discrepancy between that information and the
information within the solicitation documents. For all other discrepancies, the information in the
solicitation documents will take precedence.
Format
Documents should be created in the following format:
Text should be Times New Roman (12-point minimum font size) and unjustified (i.e., with a
ragged-right margin)
Pages should have margins of at least one inch on all sides (excluding headers and
footers)
If the proposal is lengthy, a Table of Contents should be included.
PDF format is preferred.
Errors in Proposals
The County will not be liable for any errors in proposals. Proposals may be rejected as
unresponsive if they are late, incomplete, missing pages or information, or cannot be opened for
any reason. The County may waive minor irregularities, but such waiver will not modify any
remaining RFP requirements.
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=al
5/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
3.4. Procurement Preference for Local Businesses and Local Non-Profits
The County of San Mateo has adopted a Procurement Preference for Local Businesses
Ordinance (County Ord. Code Ch. 2.89.) The purpose of this Ordinance is to promote a strong
local economy by giving preference to local businesses, local non-profits, local small and micro
businesses, and local small and micro non-profits in County procurements, to the extent
consistent with the law and interests of the public. The County's process for applying local
preferences to competitive procurements is set forth in County Ordinance Code Section
2.89.030. The Ordinance and exemptions (e.g. the ordinance will be exempt when all bids or
proposals received are from Non-Profit Organizations) can be reviewed here:
Chapter 2.89 - PROCUREMENT PREFERENCE FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES I Code of Ordinances I San
Mateo County, CA I Municode Library
The requirements for bidders to establish eligibility for a local preference for this solicitation are
detailed below in Section III (Submission Requirements) The Ordinance does not apply if a
procurement is determined to be exempt (County Ord. Code sec. 2.89.050), and the County
reserves the right to waive application of the Ordinance to this procurement if determined to be
in the best interests of the County (County Ord. Code sec. 2.89.060).
4. Minimum Qualifications, Local Preference Ordinance,
and Technical Proposal
1. Minimum Qualifications
1.1. Has Proposer has been providing similar services for a minimum of three (3) years within the
last seven (7) years?*
Yes
No
*Response required
1.2. What is the registered Business Name and Unique Entity ID (UEI) No.?*
Unique Entity ID (UEI) numbers can be found on sam.gov
Enter response
*Response required
2. Procurement Preference for Local Businesses and Local Non-Profits
2.1. Is the Proposer a "Local Business"?
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=all
6/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
As Defined by Chapter 2.89.020 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, a "Local Business"
means any for-profit business which has its principal place of business, or is headquartered, in San
Mateo County. If this designation applies to the proposer, a self-attestation form must be
completed and provided with this response.
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload. If this designation is not applicable,
please leave blank.
SMC LocalBusiness self-attestation form 120424.pdf
2.2. Is the Proposer a Non-Profit?*
A Non-Profit is defined as a tax-exempt public charity organization (within the meaning of section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code) that is formed for purposes other than making a profit, is
exempt from paying federal income taxes on the income generated for their exempt purposes.
Yes
No
*Response required
When equals "Yes"
2.2.1. Is the Proposer a "Local Non-Profit"
As Defined by Chapter 2.89.020 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, a "Local Non-Profit"
means a tax-exempt public charity organization (within the meaning of section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code) that is formed for purposes other than making a profit, is exempt from
paying federal income taxes on the income generated for their exempt purposes, and has its
principal place of business, or is headquartered, in San Mateo County. If this designation applies
to the proposer, a self-attestation form must be completed and provided with this response.
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload. If this designation is not
applicable, please leave blank.
SMC LocalBusiness self-attestation form 120424. pdf
2.3. Is the Proposer a Local "Small" or "Micro" Business?
As Defined by Chapter 2.89.020 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code:
"Small Business" means any business which holds a Small Business Certification awarded by the
California Office of Small Business and Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise Services (OSDS).
"Micro Business" means any Small Business certified by the OSDS which is automatically
designated by the OSDS as a Micro Business due to gross annual receipts falling below the OSDS-
designated dollar amount.
If the above designations apply, please provide the OSDS provided Certification ID.
If this designation is not applicable, please leave blank.
Enter response
2.4. Is the Proposer a Local "Small" or "Micro" Non-Profit?
As Defined by Chapter 2.89.020 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code:
"Small Non-Profit" means a Local Non-Profit with an annual revenue of $1,000,000 to $2,500,000
according to its most recently filed IRS Form 990.
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document/section=al
7/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
"Micro Non-Profit" means a Local Non-Profit with an annual revenue of less than $1,000,000,
according to its most recently filed IRS Form 990.
If the above designations apply, please provide your latest filed IRS form 990. A filing from the last
two calendar years is acceptable.
If this designation is not applicable, please leave blank.
3. Technical Proposal
3.1. Introduction*
Submit a letter of introduction of the proposal. The letter must contain:
Name, title and contact information (email, phone, and address) for representative of
proposer that is responsible for communication related to this RFP.
Name, title, contact information, and signature of person authorized to obligate firm to
perform the commitment contained in the proposal.
Submission of the letter will constitute a representation by proposer that it is willing and able to
perform the commitments contained in the proposal and has not violated the terms of this RFP.
*Response required
3.2. Statement of Minimum Qualifications *
Proposer must demonstrate the successful implementation and maintenance of at least three (3)
similar digital platforms for government or public sector agencies within the last seven (7) years.
Proposer must show a proven ability to aggregate real-time data from at least two (2) federal or
regional environmental sources.
Enter response
*Response required
3.3. Project Approach*
This section should correlate to the Scope of Work. Proposer should give a short summary
describing how it will perform the relevant work
Enter response
*Response required
3.4. Scope of Work tasks/milestones*
Describe your proposed approach to tasks/milestones. Please refer to scope of work section for
more information.
Enter response
*Response required
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=al
8/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
3.5. Proposed schedule *
Attach proposed schedule reference ability to complete the project within the County's required
time frame
*Response required
3.6. Performance Measures*
Describe appropriate performance measures and a plan for achieving them. Please consider
including uptime.
Enter response
*Response required
3.7. Firm Qualifications *
Attach information regarding background and qualifications, including the following:
A brief description of the proposer.
A description of not more than three (3) projects similar in size and scope conducted by the
proposer, including the client, reference and telephone numbers, primary staff members
involved, general budget, schedule, and project summary. Descriptions should be limited to
one (1) page for each project.
If subcontractors are anticipated, identify them (if known) and provide information on how
they will be used.
*Response required
3.8. References*
Provide 2 references, including the name, address, and telephone number of recent clients
(preferably other public agencies):
*Response required
3.9. Fee Proposal*
The Fee Proposal should be submitted as a separate PDF file from the Technical Proposals detailed
in Required Documents.
The County reserves the right to accept other than the lowest priced offer and to reject any
proposals that are not responsive to this request.
*Response required
5. Evaluation and Selection Criteria
The proposals will be evaluated by a selection committee with relevant expertise. The County
intends to evaluate the proposals generally in accordance with the criteria itemized below.
Proposers with the highest scoring proposals may be interviewed by the committee to make the
final selection.
1. Project Approach
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=al
9/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
Scoring Method:
Points Based
Weight (Points):
20 (20% of Total)
2. Firm Qualifications
Scoring Method:
Points Based
Weight (Points):
25 (25% of Total)
3. Team Qualifications
Scoring Method:
Points Based
Weight (Points):
20 (20% of Total)
4. Price
Scoring Method:
Reward Low Cost
Weight (Points):
25 (25% of Total)
5. Preferential Points
Where price is not the sole evaluation factor for a solicitation (e.g., in the case of a "best-value"
solicitation), five percent (5%) of the total evaluation points awardable will be added to the
proposal score for each Local Business or Local Non-Profit score for evaluation purposes. In the
event of a tie between a Local Business or Local Non-Profit and another bidder, the Local Business
or Non-Profit shall be awarded the Contract, assuming agreement on other contract terms.
An additional three percent (3%) preference shall be given to a Local Business or Local Non-profit
(for a total of eight percent (8%) of total points awardable) if the proposer is a Small Business or
Small Non-Profit, or an additional 5 percent preference (for a total of ten percent (10%) of total
points awardable) if the proposer is a Micro Business or Micro Non-Profit.
Scoring Method:
Pass / Fail
Weight (Points):
10 (10% of Total)
6. Instructions to Proposers
6.1. Instructions
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document/section=all
10/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
Proposers are encouraged to attend a pre-proposal conference on NO VALUE, at NO VALUE, to
be held at NO VALUE. All questions will be addressed at this conference and any available new
information will be provided at that time. If you have further questions regarding the RFP, please
post them on the eProcurement portal.
6.2. Communications
A. As of the issuance date of this RFP and continuing until it is canceled or an award is made,
no proposer or person acting on behalf of a prospective proposer may discuss any matter
relating to the RFP with any officer, agent, or employee of the County, other than through
eProcurement portal, to the Authorized Contact Person, or as outlined in the evaluation or
protest procedures.
B. Proposers (including any agent, owner, employee, board members, or other such
affiliates) shall not offer any gift, favor, or other personal benefit to any County officer or
employee during the procurement process for this agreement, including during the
solicitation period and contract negotiations.
Violation of the foregoing prohibitions may result in a proposer being found non-responsible
and barred from participating in this or future procurements.
6.3. Contract Award
A. Award Procedure
Contract negotiations are neither an offer nor guarantee that a contract will be executed.
A contract award, if any is made, will be to the responsive, responsible proposer offering
the overall best value to the County for the services and goods described in this
solicitation, or as applicable, for a specific portion of the services and goods described.
Any agreement reached will be memorialized in a formal agreement using the attached
template, executed by the appropriate authority.
B. Notice of Intent to Award
If a decision is made to take steps to enter into an agreement with one or more proposers,
the County will post a Notice of Intent to Award or otherwise notify proposers the
remaining proposers of their non-selection. Notice may instead be provided by including
approval of the agreement as an item on an agenda for a meeting of the Board of
Supervisors.
C. Commencement of Performance
After all parties have signed the agreement, the County will notify the contractor and
performance may proceed. Prior to execution of the agreement by the County, no County
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=all.
11/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
employee may authorize work under the agreement. Any work performed prior to the full
execution of the Agreement may not be compensated.
D. Levine Act Disclosure
The Levine Act (California Government Code Section 84308) imposes certain
requirements on parties contracting with the County of San Mateo related to campaign
contributions to County "officers," including elected County officers and candidates
seeking elective office, who may participate in making a decision on certain County
contracts. Elected County officers in San Mateo County include: the San Mateo County
Board of Supervisors, Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder, County Controller, Coroner,
District Attorney, Sheriff, and Tax Collector-Treasurer.
Generally, under current County policy, approval by the Board of Supervisors is required
for any agreement for services above $200,000, and agreements for services below that
threshold may be approved by Department heads.
If your proposal is selected, you will be required to certify compliance with the Levine
Act.
As part of this process, you will need to certify and warrant that you have fully complied,
and will remain in full compliance, with all applicable requirements of the Levine Act in
connection with the Agreement, including making any required disclosures of campaign
contributions to County Officers, which includes but may not be limited to elected County
Officers. Elected County Officers include members of the San Mateo County Board of
Supervisors, as well as the Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder, Controller, Coroner, District
Attorney, Sheriff, and Tax Collector-Treasurer. Any campaign contribution required to be
disclosed under the Levine Act in connection with this Agreement shall be disclosed on
the County of San Mateo Levine Act Disclosure Form, a copy of which is available from the
County upon request.
Parties are solely responsible for accurate certification and disclosure. The Levine Act is
complex, and this brief description is not legal advice. For example, certain contributions
must be aggregated when determining whether contributions have exceeded the $500
threshold. If your proposal is selected, you are urged to review the Levine Act and
consider consulting an attorney.
6.4. Term
County Executive's Officeis issuing Request for Proposal (RFP) No. 2026-RFP - Informal-00253
for San Mateo County Beach Safety and Ocean Conditions Dashboard Platform.
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=ll
12/13
19/2/26, 11:50 a.m.
Project Detail
The agreement shall have a term of one (1) year. In addition, the County shall have three (3)
options to extend the term for an additional period not to exceed three years, which the County
may exercise in its sole, absolute discretion. To exercise this option, the County shall provide
written notice to the Contractor at least thirty days before the end of the agreement's term.
The County's standard contract template has been included with this solicitation. The awarded
contractor will be expected to sign an agreement prepared by the County using this template.
Please ensure that your firm has completed legal review of these contract terms. If your firm
wishes to request exceptions to these standard terms, submit a Contract Exceptions Request by
the Deadline for Questions, Comments and Contract Exceptions listed in the Solicitation
Schedule below. The County will consider Contract Exceptions Requests but reserves the right
to reject requested modifications to its standard terms.
7. Attachments
No attachments were included
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/smcgov/projects/223593/document?section=al
13/13