# Support for XNAT instance for FMRIF

Solicitation: PCA-NIMH-02429
Type: Combined Synopsis/Solicitation
NAICS: 541512
Opp ID: 88531e17-2daf-4a4e-920e-103d7c2818b4



===== SOURCE FILE 1: a1fbe409-90f3-42be-ac47-b7e54f98d3a2.txt =====

COMBINED SYNOPSIS / SOLICITATION-COMPETITIVE
Title: Support for XNAT instance for FMRIF
1. This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with
the format in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 12.6 as supplemented with
additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only
solicitation; quotes are being requested and a separate written solicitation will not be
issued.
2. The solicitation number is PCA-NIMH-02429 and the solicitation is issued as request for
quotation (RFQ).
This acquisition is for a commercial item or service and is conducted under the authority of
the FAR Part 13 -Simplified Acquisition Procedures; and FAR Part 12-Acquisition of
Commercial Items and is not expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. A
fixed-price type of purchase order is contemplated for this requirement.
The Functional MRI Facility (FMRIF) in the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) is
seeking support for its data and workflow management platform, XNAT, which currently
aggregates data from multiple MRI scanners in the NMR Center (where FMRIF's and other
IC's scanners are located), provides access to these data to the users of these scanners,
and also serves as platforms for managing, sharing, and processing these data. See
Attachment 1 - Purchase Description or Statement of Work, for additional details.
3. The solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect
through Federal Acquisition Circular 2025-05, dated 08-07-2025.
4. The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Code for this procurement is
541512 - Computer Systems Design Services and the small business size standard $34
million or less.
5. Line Items: Through this procurement NIMH anticipates a single award, firm fixed price
purchase order for support for its data and workflow management platform (Lowest Price
Technically Acceptable) as described in Attachment 1 - Purchase Description or
Statement of Work.
Below is a table that contains the line item numbers and description of the brand name or
equal requirement for the anticipated award.
Line No.
Description
1
Support of FMRIF's XNAT platform
2
Data Transfer
6. Project Requirements: Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the
Contractor shall furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment,
Page 1 of 4
and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government as needed to provide the required
equipment as described in the Purchase Description.
Please see Attachment 1 - Purchase Description for the complete description and details of
the requirement.
7. Anticipated period of performance is one (1) 12-month base period from date of award, with
four (4) 12-month option periods, for a potential total of five (5) years. Additional details are
identified in Attachment #1 - Purchase Description or Statement of Work
8. The provision at FAR clause 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors - Commercial Items, applies
to this acquisition.
9. The provision at FAR clause 52.212-2, Evaluation - Commercial Items, applies to this
acquisition. The following is provided as an addendum to clause 52.212-2:
The award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the responsible Offeror whose
quote is most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The
following factors shall be used to evaluate quotations: Lowest Price Technical Acceptable
(LPTA)
Evaluations will be based on the demonstrated capabilities of the prospective Offeror in
relation to the needs of the project. The merits of each quote will be evaluated carefully.
Each quote must document the feasibility of successful implementation of the requirements
of this solicitation. The Offeror must submit information sufficient to evaluate its quotes
based on the detailed factors listed below.
a. Technical Evaluation Criteria
As part of the Technical Quote, the Offeror shall include the following:
1. Technical Capability and Functionality
NIMH shall evaluate the offeror's technical approach for overall capability and functionality in
relation to the General Requirement, Salient Characteristics, Quantity and Deliverables as
described in the Statement of Work.
2. Contract Management and Customer Support
NIMH shall evaluate the offeror's ability to provide a high level of customer service,
particularly in the area of initial responsiveness and resolution of device and service
problems. Specifically, the Government will evaluate the Offeror's capability based on its
description of any applicable warranty, customer support process.
3. Past Performance
The Offeror should provide past performance information. Past performance information
should cover a minimum of 1 year in relevant services and deliveries of comparable
systems. The Offeror should provide at least one reference for any project identified under
the experience factor that has a performance period within the past three years. For each
reference, the offeror should provide: (1) Organization/contracting partner's name; (2) Point
of contact's (POC) name and contact information: Current phone numbers. Valid email
addresses; (3) Description that precisely explains: General scope of the contract. Specific
requirements of the contract.
Page 2 of 4
Offerors may be evaluated based on information obtained from references provided by the
offeror, other relevant past performance information obtained from other sources known to
the Government, and any information supplied by the offeror concerning problems
encountered on the identified contracts and corrective action taken. Furthermore, the
Government will assess the relative risks associated with each offeror. Performance risks
are those associated with an offeror's likelihood of success in performing the acquisition
requirements as indicated by that offeror's record of past performance. The assessment of
performance risk is not intended to be the product of a mechanical or mathematical analysis
of an offeror's performance on a list of contracts but rather the product of subjective
judgment by the Government after it considers all available and relevant information.
b. Price Evaluation
Offerors price quote will be evaluated for reasonableness. For a price to be reasonable, it
must represent a price to the government that a prudent person would pay when
consideration is given to prices in the market. Normally, price reasonableness is established
through adequate price competition, but may also be determined through cost and price
analysis techniques. Price evaluation will not be conducted on any Offeror determined to be
technically unacceptable.
10. The Offeror is to include a completed copy of the provision at FAR clause 52.212-3, Offeror
Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items, with its offer.
11. The FAR clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions - Commercial Items, applies to
this acquisition.
12. The FAR clause at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement
Statutes or Executive Orders-Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition and is
supplemented by Attachment 2 - 52.212-5 Addendum.
13. The following additional contract requirement(s) or terms and conditions as determined by
the Contracting Officer are necessary for this acquisition and consistent with customary
commercial practices. FAR 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions - Commercial Items
(October 2018) is included in this solicitation by reference. Additional contract requirement(s)
or terms and conditions determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary for this
acquisition are supplemented by the following attachments:
Attachment 1 - Purchase Description
Attachment 2 - 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes
or Executive Orders-Commercial Items
Attachment 3 - Invoice Instructions
14. This is not a rated order under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS). The
resultant purchase order will provide that HHS reserves the right to exercise priorities and
allocations authority with respect to this contract, to include rating this order in accordance
with 45 CFR Part 101, Subpart A-Health Resources Priorities and Allocations System.
15. The response to the combined synopsis/solicitation is due no later than April 20, 2026 at
1:00 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Offers submitted after the deadline may not be
considered. The response should be submitted in a searchable electronic format to the
Contract Specialist, Nicholas Capobianco at nicholas.capobianco@nih.gov. Electronic
Page 3 of 4
submittals must include the combined synopsis/solicitation PCA-NIMH-02429 and the Title
in the Subject Line.
In addition, the Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) number, the Taxpayer Identification Number
(TIN), and the certification of business size must be included in the response. All offerors
must have an active registration in the System for Award Management (SAM)
www.sam.gov.
The Offeror must submit with their quote the following information:
technical quote in accordance with this combined synopsis/solicitation in a searchable
PDF format;
Price quote in an Excel format;
the Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) number; and
Verification of System for Award Management (SAM) Registration www.sam.gov.
Technical quotes shall be submitted in accordance with the Project Requirements
identified in Section 6 of this combined synopsis/solicitation.
The Offeror should submit a separate business quotes in searchable PDF format.
In its business quote, the Offeror shall add the total price for the basic requirements.
Any quote, modification, or revision that is received at the designated Government office
after the exact date and time specified for receipt of quotations is "late" and may not be
considered. Quotes received "late" may not be evaluated or considered for award and may
be returned to the Offeror.
If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that
quotes cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of quotes by the
exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude
amendment of the solicitation closing date, the time specified for receipt of quotes will be
deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work
day on which normal Government processes resume.
The Government reserves the right to award without discussions if the Contracting Officer
determines that the initial prices are fair and reasonable and that discussions are not
necessary.
16. Questions and requests for clarification should be submitted electronically to the Contract
Specialist, Nicholas Capobianco at nicholas.capobianco@nih.gov on or before 1:00 pm
April 13, 2026. Any questions or request for clarification must include the combined
synopsis/solicitation PCA-NIMH-02429 and the Title in the Subject Line.
Page 4 of 4


===== SOURCE FILE 2: ae8b2299-a10e-4651-b2bf-66cceec9732a.txt =====

STATEMENT OF WORK (SERVICES)
(SOW)
GENERAL INFORMATION
Title of Project:
Support for XNAT instance for FMRIF.
Statement of Need and Purpose:
The Functional MRI Facility (FMRIF) in the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) is seeking support
for its data and workflow management platform, XNAT, which currently aggregates data from multiple MRI
scanners in the NMR Center (where FMRIF's and other IC's scanners are located), provides access to
these data to the users of these scanners, and also serves as platforms for managing, sharing, and
processing these data.
Background Information and Objective:
Since its inception, FMRIF has operated a series of web-based platforms that serve to both aggregate
image data from the MRI scanners owned and operated by the FMRIF, and to share these data out to its
users, so they could securely retrieve their data using a web browser, or other web-based tools. The first
such service used by FMRIF was a commercial PACS system from Intelerad. However, as both the number
of scans conducted on FMRIF scanners rose, along with the volume of Functional MRI data generated,
FMRIF encountered significant performance issues that could not be resolved by the vendor of that system.
FMRIF then investigated multiple options to replace the Intelerad system, exploring both commercial and
open source software (including, but not limited to, dcm4chee, XNAT, COINS, and NiDB). In all cases,
there were either significant deficiencies, and / or lack of flexibility, that precluded use of any of these
packages by FMRIF. Ultimately, a custom database and web application was created in-house, by a
FMRIF-employed programmer, and that platform served FMRIF for almost a decade. However, in 2020,
because of a loss of staff and expertise with FMRIF's in-house data management systems, FMRIF sought
a commercial option, with support, to replace its in-house data management solution. That contract
(75N95020P00651) was awarded to Radiologics to help FMRIF deploy, migrate data to, and support a
single instance of XNAT. This was successfully rolled out to FMRIF's and other Facilities' users, and now
FMRIF seeks an agreement to continue supporting its XNAT instance for its data warehousing,
management, and processing needs.
Period of Performance:
Support for 1 year is required, starting on ASAP in FY26, with 4 additional option years of support also
being requested.
SCOPE OF WORK
General Requirements:
Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall furnish all the necessary
services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government
as needed to perform the Statement of Work below:
Version 11-30-2016-1
FAR Part 11-Describing Agency Needs
Page 1 of 4
Specific Requirements:
Support of FMRIF's XNAT platform includes:
Updating XNAT software on supported instances to provide new capabilities, and address any
emergent performance and security issues.
Updating integration with institutional authentication system (LDAP and Active Directory) to
facilitate user authentication and system access.
Maintaining and updating interfaces with multiple MR scanner vendors to allow automatic capture
and aggregation both raw (k-space) and DICOM data generated by these vendors' platforms.
Supporting transport of acquired and computed DICOM data between (i.e. send to and receive
from) the platform and commercial PACS systems, and MR scanners
Continue to provide training and training materials for FMRIF staff and users to administer and use
the system.
Continue to develop and provide tools for version tracking and maintaining provenance of data and
analysis pipelines.
Support scaling of compute and storage needs as the number of scanners, aggregated studies,
and data processing compute loads increase.
Develop and support interfaces for visualizing and analyzing data, including, but not limited to,
derivation of basic quality assurance metrics.
Continue supporting tools and / or interfaces for metadata search and management.
Supporting and developing tools to leverage OCI-compliant containers for data processing,
including, but not limited to, containers providing tools such as AFNI, FreeSurfer, and FSL.
Support interfacing with large-scale batch processing system such as slurm and PBS on local HPC
and commercial cloud compute resources.
Support exporting image and study data into BIDS (Brain Imaging Data Structure) compliant data
sets.
Support providing automated and customizable data anonymization / de-identification for exported
datasets.
Support open REST-based APIs to all services and data, and support for external language SDKs
(e.g. MATLAB, Python, and R).
Provide mechanisms and interfaces for validation of data uploads into the system, and detection
and logging of errors or omissions with such uploads.
Support command line integration access to API to facilitate scripting, data import and export, job
scheduling and status, and building analysis pipelines.
Provide guaranteed response times to customer queries about issues, acknowledging of receipt of
report of issues within 24 hours, with a 4 week window to resolving any issues raised.
Develop and provide options to consolidate data storted by XNAT on disk into fewer objects,
allowing backup of XNAT to tape, and providing a more streamlined path for XNAT sites to migrate
their instnaces to cloud services.
Keeping software deployed at, developed for, NIH open source, and available to the wider research
community.
Provide at least 3 references who can attest to ability and experience supporting XNAT instances.
Version 11-30-2016-1
FAR Part 11-Describing Agency Needs
Page 2 of 4
LEVEL OF EFFORT:
The contractor is expected to employ staff familiar with DICOM communication protocols, understand
various computer network communication protocols and security standards, and also familiar with medical
imaging data processing requirements. Staff should be intimately familiar with the XNAT application, its
operation, and should have extensive experience developing software and features that work both within,
and interact with, the XNAT application.
GOVERNMENT RESPONSIBILITIES:
The government will supply all information necessary for contractor to complete their efforts. The
government will also provide either physical or virtual computer systems on which the software platform will
be deployed. Under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the contractor and government, the
government will also provide remote access to vendor to system(s) on which the platform is deployed, to
facilitate trouble-shooting, and performance and feature enhancements.
DELIVERY OR DELIVERABLES:
The contractor must deploy the scientific imaging data management system to a FMRIF-operated physical
or virtual computers, and demonstrate how its operations meets and conforms to the above-listed "Specific
Requirements." The contractor must also help maintain the performance of the system, as well its
adherence to all security policies and requirements.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
The contractor should report general performance metrics of the platform (relative compute load, and
storage usage). The contractor should also report when systems are accessed, and for what purposes
was access made. The contractor should also notify when system patches and updates become available,
to enhance performance of the platform, as well as satisfy security and policy requirements.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS:
Travel:
No travel costs are anticipated to execute tis contract. Any and all travel costs are expected to be covered
by the costs of this contract.
Key Personnel:
The relevant key personnel have been specified under the "Level of Effort" section.
Information System Security Plan:
This statement of work requires the contractor to (1) develop, (2) have the ability to access, and (3) maintain
a federal information system. All work on this platform, and access to the machines on it will be under a
Memorandum of Understanding between the contract and NIH's Center for Information Technology.
Contractor will maintain systems to provide best performance, and also maintain compliance with current
NIH policies and requirements.
Data Rights:
Any data generated by this procurement or system will belong to the Government. The Government will
retain all rights over any generated data.
Version 11-30-2016-1
FAR Part 11-Describing Agency Needs
Page 3 of 4
Section 508-Electronic and Information Technology Standards:
The contractor shall comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. § 794d), as amended by
the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220), August 7, 1998. This system will not be accessible
to the general public - it will only be accessible NIH employees with the relevant training.
Publications and Publicity:
This SOW is not expected to generate any publications.
Confidentiality of Information:
This SOW is not expected to utilize or generate any confidential information.
ATTACHMENTS
1.
Independent Government's Cost Estimate
2.
Evaluation / Selection Criteria
Version 11-30-2016-1
FAR Part 11-Describing Agency Needs
Page 4 of 4